

# Adelaide

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

This article is about the greater metropolitan area known as Adelaide. For the
city centre, see Adelaide city centre. For the local government area, see City
of Adelaide. For other uses, see Adelaide (disambiguation).

Adelaide  
South Australia  
---  
  
From top to bottom:

  * A view of the Adelaide plains looking South towards the Adelaide Hills.
  * The Torrens River at night with the Torrens river footbridge illuminated.
  * Adelaide Oval during a cricket match with the Adelaide Oval scoreboard to the left and St Peter's Cathedral to the right.
  * Henley Beach, one of the beaches along the Adelaide coastline of the Gulf St Vincent, with the Henley Beach Jetty in the background.

  
  
Adelaide  
  
Coordinates | 34°55′44.4″S 138°36′3.6″E﻿ / ﻿34.929000°S 138.601000°E﻿ /
-34.929000; 138.601000Coordinates: 34°55′44.4″S 138°36′3.6″E﻿ / ﻿34.929000°S
138.601000°E﻿ / -34.929000; 138.601000  
Population | 1,324,279 (2016)[1] (5th)  
 • Density | 406.507/km2 (1,052.849/sq mi) (2011)  
Established | 28 December 1836 (1836-12-28)  
Area | 3,257.7 km2 (1,257.8 sq mi)[2]  
Time zone | ACST (UTC+9:30)  
 • Summer (DST) | ACDT (UTC+10:30)  
Location |

  * 654 km (406 mi) NW of Melbourne[3]
  * 958 km (595 mi) West of Canberra[4]
  * 1,161 km (721 mi) West of Sydney[5]
  * 1,600 km (994 mi) SW of Brisbane[6]
  * 2,130 km (1,324 mi) East of Perth[7]

  
| **Mean max temp** | **Mean min temp** | **Annual rainfall**  
---|---|---  
22.4 °C  
72 °F | 12.3 °C  
54 °F | 543.9 mm  
21.4 in  
  
**Adelaide** (/ ˈædəleɪd/ ( listen) _**AD** -ə-layd_)[8] is the capital city
of the state of South Australia, and the fifth-most populous city of
Australia. In June 2016, Adelaide had an estimated resident population of
1,324,279.[1] Adelaide is home to more than 75 percent of the South Australian
population, making it the most centralised population of any state in
Australia.

Adelaide is north of the Fleurieu Peninsula, on the Adelaide Plains between
the Gulf St Vincent and the low-lying Mount Lofty Ranges which surround the
city. Adelaide stretches 20 km (12 mi) from the coast to the foothills, and 94
to 104 km (58 to 65 mi) from Gawler at its northern extent to Sellicks Beach
in the south.

Named in honour of Adelaide of Saxe-Meiningen, queen consort to King William
IV, the city was founded in 1836 as the planned capital for a freely-settled
British province in Australia. Colonel William Light, one of Adelaide's
founding fathers, designed the city and chose its location close to the River
Torrens, in the area originally inhabited by the Kaurna people. Light's design
set out Adelaide in a grid layout, interspaced by wide boulevards and large
public squares, and entirely surrounded by parklands. Early Adelaide was
shaped by prosperity and wealth—until the Second World War, it was Australia's
third-largest city and one of the few Australian cities to not have convict
history.[9] It has been noted for early examples of religious freedom, a
commitment to political progressivism and civil liberties.[10] It has been
known as the "City of Churches" since the mid-19th century.[11] The demonym
"Adelaidean" is used in reference to the city and its residents.[12][13]

As South Australia's seat of government and commercial centre, Adelaide is the
site of many governmental and financial institutions. Most of these are
concentrated in the city centre along the cultural boulevard of North Terrace,
King William Street and in various districts of the metropolitan area. Today,
Adelaide is noted for its many festivals and sporting events, its food and
wine, its long beachfronts, and its large defence and manufacturing sectors.
It ranks highly in terms of liveability, being listed in the Top 10 of _The
Economist Intelligence Unit_ 's World's Most Liveable Cities index in
2010,[14] 2011,[15] 2012[16] and 2015.[17] It was also ranked the most
liveable city in Australia by the Property Council of Australia in 2011,[18]
2012[19] and 2013.[20]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Before European settlement
    * 1.2 19th century
    * 1.3 20th century
    * 1.4 21st century
  * 2 Geography
    * 2.1 Urban layout
      * 2.1.1 Housing
    * 2.2 Climate
  * 3 Governance
  * 4 Local governments
  * 5 Demography
    * 5.1 Age structure
    * 5.2 Religion
  * 6 Economy
    * 6.1 Defence industry
    * 6.2 Employment statistics
    * 6.3 House prices
  * 7 Education and research
    * 7.1 Primary and secondary education
    * 7.2 Tertiary education
    * 7.3 Research
  * 8 Cultural
    * 8.1 Arts and entertainment
      * 8.1.1 Concert venues
    * 8.2 Media
      * 8.2.1 Newspapers
      * 8.2.2 Television
      * 8.2.3 Radio
    * 8.3 Icons
  * 9 Sport
  * 10 Infrastructure
    * 10.1 Health
    * 10.2 Transport
      * 10.2.1 Airports
    * 10.3 Utilities
  * 11 See also
  * 12 References
  * 13 Further reading
  * 14 External links

## History[edit]

Main article: History of Adelaide

### Before European settlement[edit]

Approximate extent of Kaurna territory, based on the description by Amery
(2000)

Prior to its proclamation as a British settlement in 1836, the area around
Adelaide was inhabited by the indigenous Kaurna Aboriginal nation (pronounced
"Garner").

Kaurna culture and language was almost completely destroyed within a few
decades of the European settlement of South Australia in 1836.[21] However,
extensive documentation by early missionaries and other researchers has
enabled a modern revival of both language and culture.[22]

### 19th century[edit]

Queen Adelaide, the city's namesake

In July 1876, the Illustrated Sydney News published a special supplement that
included an early aerial view of the City of Adelaide, the River Torrens and
portion of North Adelaide from a point above Pennington Terrace, North
Adelaide.

South Australia was officially proclaimed as a British colony on 28 December
1836, near The Old Gum Tree in what is now the suburb of Glenelg North. The
event is commemorated in South Australia as Proclamation Day.[23] The site of
the colony's capital was surveyed and laid out by Colonel William Light, the
first Surveyor-General of South Australia, through the design made by the
architect George Strickland Kingston.[24]

Adelaide was established as a planned colony of free immigrants, promising
civil liberties and freedom from religious persecution, based upon the ideas
of Edward Gibbon Wakefield. Wakefield had read accounts of Australian
settlement while in prison in London for attempting to abduct an heiress,[25]
and realised that the eastern colonies suffered from a lack of available
labour, due to the practice of giving land grants to all arrivals.[26]
Wakefield's idea was for the Government to survey and sell the land at a rate
that would maintain land values high enough to be unaffordable for labourers
and journeymen.[27] Funds raised from the sale of land were to be used to
bring out working class emigrants, who would have to work hard for the monied
settlers to ever afford their own land.[28] As a result of this policy,
Adelaide does not share the convict settlement history of other Australian
cities like Sydney, Melbourne, Brisbane and Hobart.

North Terrace in 1841

As it was believed that in a colony of free settlers there would be little
crime, no provision was made for a gaol in Colonel Light's 1837 plan. However,
by mid-1837 the _South Australian Register_ was warning of escaped convicts
from New South Wales and tenders for a temporary gaol were sought. Following a
burglary, a murder, and two attempted murders in Adelaide during March 1838,
Governor Hindmarsh created the South Australian Police Force (now named South
Australia Police) in April 1838 under 21-year-old Henry Inman.[29] The first
sheriff, Mr Samuel Smart, was wounded during a robbery, and on 2 May 1838 one
of the offenders, Michael Magee, became the first person to be hanged in South
Australia.[30] William Baker Ashton was appointed governor of the temporary
gaol in 1839, and in 1840 George Strickland Kingston was commissioned to
design Adelaide's new gaol.[31] Construction of Adelaide Gaol commenced in
1841.[32]

1888 Map of Adelaide, showing the gradual development of its urban layout

Adelaide's early history was wrought by economic uncertainty and questionable
leadership.[ _dubious – discuss_] The first governor of South Australia, John
Hindmarsh, clashed frequently with others, in particular the Resident
Commissioner, James Hurtle Fisher. The rural area surrounding Adelaide was
surveyed by Light in preparation to sell a total of over 405 km2 (156 sq mi)
of land. Adelaide's early economy started to get on its feet in 1838 with the
arrival of livestock from Victoria, New South Wales and Tasmania. Wool
production provided an early basis for the South Australian economy. By 1860,
wheat farms had been established from Encounter Bay in the south to Clare in
the north.

Governor Gawler took over from Hindmarsh in late 1838 and, despite being under
orders from the _Select Committee on South Australia_ in Britain not to
undertake any public works, promptly oversaw construction of a governor's
house, the Adelaide Gaol, police barracks, a hospital, a customs house and a
wharf at Port Adelaide. Gawler was recalled and replaced by Governor Grey in
1841. Grey slashed public expenditure against heavy opposition, although its
impact was negligible at this point: silver was discovered in Glen Osmond that
year, agriculture was well underway, and other mines sprung up all over the
state, aiding Adelaide's commercial development. The city exported meat, wool,
wine, fruit and wheat by the time Grey left in 1845, contrasting with a low
point in 1842 when one-third of Adelaide houses were abandoned. [ _citation
needed_ ]

Trade links with the rest of the Australian states were established with the
Murray River being successfully navigated in 1853 by Francis Cadell, an
Adelaide resident. South Australia became a self-governing colony in 1856 with
the ratification of a new constitution by the British parliament. Secret
ballots were introduced, and a bicameral parliament was elected on 9 March
1857, by which time 109,917 people lived in the province.[33]

In 1860 the Thorndon Park reservoir was opened, finally providing an
alternative water source to the now turbid River Torrens. Gas street lighting
was implemented in 1867, the University of Adelaide was founded in 1874, the
South Australian Art Gallery opened in 1881 and the Happy Valley Reservoir
opened in 1896. In the 1890s Australia was affected by a severe economic
depression, ending a hectic era of land booms and tumultuous expansionism.
Financial institutions in Melbourne and banks in Sydney closed. The national
fertility rate fell and immigration was reduced to a trickle. The value of
South Australia's exports nearly halved. Drought and poor harvests from 1884
compounded the problems, with some families leaving for Western Australia.[
_citation needed_ ] Adelaide was not as badly hit as the larger gold-rush
cities of Sydney and Melbourne, and silver and lead discoveries at Broken Hill
provided some relief. Only one year of deficit was recorded, but the price
paid was retrenchments and lean public spending. Wine and copper were the only
industries not to suffer a downturn.[ _citation needed_ ]

### 20th century[edit]

The Grenfell Centre, Adelaide's second-tallest building

Westpac House, Adelaide's tallest building at 132 metres (Australia's 133rd
tallest building).[34]

Electric street lighting was introduced in 1900 and electric trams were
transporting passengers in 1909. 28,000 men were sent to fight in World War I.
Historian F.W. Crowley examined the reports of visitors in the early 20th
century, noting that "many visitors to Adelaide admired the foresighted
planning of its founders", as well as pondering on the riches of the young
city.[35] Adelaide enjoyed a post-war boom, entering a time of relative
prosperity. Its population grew, and it became the 3rd most populous
metropolitan area in the country—after Sydney and Melbourne. Its prosperity
was short lived, with the return of droughts, having endured the Great
Depression of the 1930s, and later returning to fortune under strong
government leadership.[ _citation needed_ ] Secondary industries helped reduce
the state's dependence on primary industries. World War II brought industrial
stimulus and diversification to Adelaide under the Playford Government, which
advocated Adelaide as a safe place for manufacturing due to its less
vulnerable location.[36] Shipbuilding was expanded at the nearby port of
Whyalla.

Intersection of North Terrace and King William Street viewed from Parliament
House, 1938.

The South Australian Government in this period built on former wartime
manufacturing industries. International manufacturers like General Motors
Holden and Chrysler[37] made use of these factories around Adelaide,
completing its transformation from an agricultural service centre to a 20th-
century city. A pipeline from Mannum brought River Murray water to Adelaide in
1954 and an airport opened at West Beach in 1955. Flinders University and the
Flinders Medical Centre were established in the 1960s at Bedford Park, south
of the city. Today, Flinders Medical Centre is one of the largest teaching
hospitals within the South Australia.

The Dunstan Governments of the 1970s saw something of an Adelaide 'cultural
revival',[ _citation needed_ ] establishing a wide array of social reforms and
overseeing the city becoming a centre of the arts, building upon the biennial
"Adelaide Festival of Arts" which commenced in 1960. Adelaide hosted the
Formula One Australian Grand Prix between 1985 and 1996 on a street circuit in
the city's east parklands; it then moved to Melbourne in 1996.[38] The 1991
State Bank collapsed during the then economic recession, with its effects
lasting until 2004, when ratings agency Standard & Poor's reinstated South
Australia's AAA credit rating.[39] Since 1999, the Clipsal 500 Supercars race
has made use of sections of the former Formula One circuit. Adelaide's tallest
building, built in 1988, was originally known as the State Bank Building. In
1991 it was renamed the Santos Building and in 2006 it was again renamed
Westpac House. Its second tallest building, the Grenfell Centre (a.k.a. the
Mighty Black stump) was completed in 1975.

### 21st century[edit]

The Adelaide central business district at night, 2013

In the early years of the 21st century there was a significant increase in the
State Government's spending on Adelaide's infrastructure. The Rann Government
invested A$535 million in a major upgrade of the Adelaide Oval to enable AFL
to be played in the city centre[40] and more than A$2 billion to build a new
Royal Adelaide Hospital on land adjacent to the Adelaide Railway Station.[41]
The Glenelg tramline was extended through the city to Hindmarsh[42] and the
suburban railway line extended south to Seaford.[43]

Following a period of stagnancy in the 1990s and 2000s, Adelaide began several
major developments and redevelopments. The Adelaide Convention Centre was
redeveloped and expanded at a cost of A$350 million beginning in 2012.[44]
Three historic buildings were adapted for modern use: the Torrens Building in
Victoria Square as the Adelaide campus for Carnegie Mellon University,
University College London and Torrens University;[45] the Stock Exchange
building as the Science Exchange of the Royal Institution Australia; and the
Glenside Psychiatric Hospital as the Adelaide Studios of the SA Film
Corporation. The government also invested more than A$2 billion to build a
desalination plant, powered by renewable energy, as an 'insurance policy'
against droughts affecting Adelaide's water supply.[46] In the Arts the
Adelaide Festival, Fringe and Womadelaide became annual events.[47]

## Geography[edit]

Satellite image of Adelaide's metropolitan area. The Adelaide Hills is the
green area to the right of the image.

City map of Adelaide, Australia.

Adelaide is north of the Fleurieu Peninsula, on the Adelaide Plains between
the Gulf St Vincent and the low-lying Mount Lofty Ranges. The city stretches
20 km (12 mi) from the coast to the foothills, and 90 km (56 mi) from Gawler
at its northern extent to Sellicks Beach in the south. According to the
Regional Development Australia, an Australian government planning initiative,
the "Adelaide Metropolitan Region" has a total land area of 870 km2 (340 sq
mi), while a more expansive definition by the Australian Bureau of Statistics
defines a "Greater Adelaide" statistical area totalling 3,257.7 km2 (1,257.8
sq mi). The city sits at an average elevation of 50 metres (160 ft) above sea
level. Mount Lofty, east of the Adelaide metropolitan region in the Adelaide
Hills at an elevation of 727 metres (2,385 ft), is the tallest point of the
city and in the state south of Burra.

Much of Adelaide was bushland before British settlement, with some variation –
sandhills, swamps and marshlands were prevalent around the coast. The loss of
the sandhills to urban development had a particularly destructive effect on
the coastline due to erosion.[48] Where practical, the government has
implemented programs to rebuild and vegetate sandhills at several of
Adelaide's beachside suburbs. Much of the original vegetation has been cleared
with what is left to be found in reserves such as the Cleland Conservation
Park and Belair National Park. A number of creeks and rivers flow through the
Adelaide region. The largest are the Torrens and Onkaparinga catchments.
Adelaide relies on its many reservoirs for water supply with the Happy Valley
Reservoir supplying around 40% and the much larger Mount Bold Reservoir 10% of
Adelaide's domestic requirements respectively.

Adelaide and its surrounding area is one of the most seismically active
regions in Australia. On 1 March 1954 at 3:40 am Adelaide experienced its
largest recorded earthquake to date, with the epicentre 12 km from the city
centre at Darlington, and a reported magnitude of 5.6.[49][50] There have been
smaller earthquakes in 2010, 2011 and 2014.

### Urban layout[edit]

Main article: Light's Vision

The corner of North Terrace (right) and Pulteney Street (left), looking south-
west from Bonython Hall.

Adelaide is a planned city, designed by the first surveyor-general of South
Australia, Colonel William Light. His plan, now known as **Light's Vision** ,
arranged Adelaide in a grid, with five squares in the Adelaide city centre and
a ring of parks, known as the Adelaide Parklands, surrounding it. Light's
selection of the location for the city was initially unpopular with the early
settlers, as well as South Australia's first governor, John Hindmarsh, due to
its distance from the harbour at Port Adelaide, and the lack of fresh water
there.[51] Light successfully persisted with his choice of location against
this initial opposition.

The benefits of Light's design are numerous: Adelaide has had wide multi-lane
roads from its beginning, an easily navigable cardinal direction grid layout
and an expansive green ring around the city centre. There are two sets of ring
roads in Adelaide that have resulted from the original design. The inner ring
route (A21) borders the parklands, and the outer route (A3/A13/A16/A17)
completely bypasses the inner city via (in clockwise order) Grand Junction
Road, Hampstead Road, Ascot Avenue, Portrush Road, Cross Road and South
Road.[52]

Footbridge across the Torrens River, with the Adelaide Oval stadium in the
background

Suburban expansion has to some extent outgrown Light's original plan. Numerous
former outlying villages and "country towns", as well as the satellite city of
Elizabeth, have been enveloped by its suburban sprawl. Expanding developments
in the Adelaide Hills region led to the construction of the South Eastern
Freeway to cope with growth, which has subsequently led to new developments
and further improvements to that transport corridor. Similarly, the booming
development in Adelaide's South led to the construction of the Southern
Expressway.

New roads are not the only transport infrastructure developed to cope with the
urban growth. The O-Bahn Busway is an example of a unique solution to Tea Tree
Gully's transport woes in the 1980s.[53] The development of the nearby suburb
of Golden Grove in the late 1980s is an example of well-thought-out urban
planning.

King William Street, one of the widest main streets in an Australian capital
city, viewed from Victoria Square.

In the 1960s, a Metropolitan Adelaide Transport Study Plan was proposed in
order to cater for the future growth of the city. The plan involved the
construction of freeways, expressways and the upgrade of certain aspects of
the public transport system. The then premier Steele Hall approved many parts
of the plan and the government went as far as purchasing land for the project.
The later Labor government elected under Don Dunstan shelved the plan, but
allowed the purchased land to remain vacant, should the future need for
freeways arise. In 1980, the Liberal party won government and premier David
Tonkin committed his government to selling off the land acquired for the MATS
plan, ensuring that even when needs changed, the construction of most MATS-
proposed freeways would be impractical. Some parts of this land have been used
for transport, (e.g. the O-Bahn Busway and Southern Expressway), while most
has been progressively subdivided for residential use.

In 2008, the SA Government announced plans for a network of transport-oriented
developments across the Adelaide metropolitan area and purchased a 10 hectare
industrial site at Bowden for $52.5 million as the first of these
developments.[54][55] The site covers 102,478 square metres, or about 10
hectares, and is bounded by Park Terrace to the south, the Adelaide to Outer
Harbour railway line to the west, Drayton Street to the north and Sixth and
Seventh Streets to the east.

#### Housing[edit]

Main article: Australian residential architectural styles

Historically, Adelaide's suburban residential areas have been characterised by
single-storey detached houses built on 1,000-square-metre (1⁄4-acre) blocks. A
relative lack of suitable locally available timber for construction purposes
led to the early development of a brick-making industry, as well as the use of
stone, for houses and other buildings. By 1891 68% of houses were built of
stone, 15% of timber, and 10% of brick, with brick also being widely used in
stone houses for quoins, door and window surrounds, and chimneys and
fireplaces.[56]

There is a wide variety in the styles of these predominately brick, and to a
lesser degree, stone, and/or stone-faced, single-storey detached houses. After
both of the World Wars, the use of red bricks was popular. In the 1960s, cream
bricks became popular, and in the 1970s, deep red and brown bricks became
popular.[ _citation needed_ ] Until the 1970s, roofs tended to be clad with
corrugated iron or clay tiles (usually red clay). Since then, cement tiles and
colourbond corrugated (and other types of) iron have also become popular. Most
roofs are pitched; flat roofs are not common. Up to the 1970s, the majority of
houses were of "double brick" construction on concrete footings, with timber
floors laid on joists supported by "dwarf walls". Due to Adelaide's reactive
soils (particularly Keswick Clay, black earth and some red-brown earth
soils[57]), since then houses have mainly been constructed of "brick veneer"
over a timber frame (and more recently, over a light steel frame) on a
concrete slab foundation.[58] The use of precast concrete panels for floor and
wall construction has also increased.[58] In addition to this, a significant
factor in Adelaide's suburban history is the role of the South Australian
Housing Trust.

### Climate[edit]

Main article: Climate of Adelaide

Adelaide has a Mediterranean climate (Köppen climate classification _Csa_
),[59] with warm to hot dry summers and mild short winters, with most
precipitation falling in the winter months. Adelaide receives enough annual
precipitation to avoid Köppen's BSh (semi-arid climate) classification.
Rainfall is unreliable, light and infrequent throughout summer. In contrast,
the winter has fairly reliable rainfall with June being the wettest month of
the year, averaging around 80 mm. Frosts are occasional, with the most notable
occurrences in July 1908 and July 1982. Hail is also common in winter.
Adelaide is a windy city—it experiences wind chill in winter, which makes the
temperature seem colder than it actually is. Snowfall in the metropolitan area
is extremely uncommon, although light and sporadic falls in the nearby hills
and at Mount Lofty occur during winter. Dewpoints in the summer typically
range from 8 to 10 °C (46 to 50 °F).

The average sea temperature ranges from 13.7 °C (56.7 °F) in August to 21.2 °C
(70.2 °F) in February.[60]

Climate data for Adelaide (Kent Town, 1977–2013)  
---  
Month | Jan | Feb | Mar | Apr | May | Jun | Jul | Aug | Sep | Oct | Nov | Dec
| Year  
Record high °C (°F) | 45.7  
(114.3) | 44.7  
(112.5) | 41.9  
(107.4) | 36.9  
(98.4) | 31.1  
(88) | 25.4  
(77.7) | 23.1  
(73.6) | 30.4  
(86.7) | 34.3  
(93.7) | 39.0  
(102.2) | 43.0  
(109.4) | 43.4  
(110.1) | 45.7  
(114.3)  
Mean maximum °C (°F) | 41.2  
(106.2) | 39.8  
(103.6) | 36.8  
(98.2) | 31.3  
(88.3) | 25.7  
(78.3) | 20.8  
(69.4) | 20.0  
(68) | 23.2  
(73.8) | 28.3  
(82.9) | 33.1  
(91.6) | 36.9  
(98.4) | 38.9  
(102) | 42.2  
(108)  
Average high °C (°F) | 29.4  
(84.9) | 29.5  
(85.1) | 26.5  
(79.7) | 22.7  
(72.9) | 19.0  
(66.2) | 16.1  
(61) | 15.3  
(59.5) | 16.7  
(62.1) | 19.1  
(66.4) | 22.1  
(71.8) | 25.3  
(77.5) | 27.2  
(81) | 22.4  
(72.3)  
Average low °C (°F) | 17.2  
(63) | 17.3  
(63.1) | 15.4  
(59.7) | 12.5  
(54.5) | 10.3  
(50.5) | 8.2  
(46.8) | 7.5  
(45.5) | 8.2  
(46.8) | 9.8  
(49.6) | 11.5  
(52.7) | 14.0  
(57.2) | 15.6  
(60.1) | 12.3  
(54.1)  
Mean minimum °C (°F) | 11.9  
(53.4) | 11.8  
(53.2) | 9.7  
(49.5) | 7.4  
(45.3) | 5.0  
(41) | 3.0  
(37.4) | 2.5  
(36.5) | 3.1  
(37.6) | 4.7  
(40.5) | 6.1  
(43) | 8.0  
(46.4) | 9.9  
(49.8) | 2.0  
(35.6)  
Record low °C (°F) | 9.2  
(48.6) | 9.5  
(49.1) | 7.2  
(45) | 4.3  
(39.7) | 1.5  
(34.7) | −0.4  
(31.3) | 0.4  
(32.7) | 1.6  
(34.9) | 2.6  
(36.7) | 4.7  
(40.5) | 5.3  
(41.5) | 8.0  
(46.4) | −0.4  
(31.3)  
Average rainfall mm (inches) | 20.9  
(0.823) | 15.9  
(0.626) | 27.4  
(1.079) | 39.4  
(1.551) | 60.8  
(2.394) | 78.8  
(3.102) | 77.4  
(3.047) | 67.3  
(2.65) | 59.7  
(2.35) | 42.0  
(1.654) | 29.6  
(1.165) | 29.1  
(1.146) | 551.0  
(21.693)  
Average rainy days (≥ 0.2 mm) | 4.7 | 3.6 | 5.9 | 8.1 | 12.5 | 15.0 | 16.4 |
16.3 | 13.5 | 10.0 | 8.1 | 7.1 | 121.2  
Average afternoon relative humidity (%) | 36 | 36 | 41 | 47 | 55 | 61 | 60 |
55 | 51 | 45 | 40 | 39 | 47  
Mean monthly sunshine hours | 325.5 | 285.3 | 266.6 | 219.0 | 167.4 | 138.0 |
148.8 | 186.0 | 204.0 | 257.3 | 273.0 | 294.5 | 2,765.4  
Source: Bureau of Meteorology.[61][62][63]  
  
  

## Governance[edit]

Main article: Government of South Australia

Composition of the Parliament of South Australia  
---  
Party | House | Council  
Labor | 23 | 8  
Liberal | 19 | 8  
Green | 0 | 2  
Australian Conservatives | 0 | 2  
Dignity for Disability | 0 | 1  
Independent | 5 | 1  
**Total** | **47** | **22**  
Source: Electoral Commission SA  
  
Parliament House, Adelaide

Adelaide, as the capital of South Australia, is the seat of the Government of
South Australia. As Adelaide is South Australia's capital and most populous
city, the State Government co-operates extensively with the City of Adelaide.
In 2006, the Ministry for the City of Adelaide was created to facilitate the
state government's collaboration with the Adelaide City Council and the Lord
Mayor to improve Adelaide's image. The state parliament's Capital City
Committee[64] is also involved in the governance of the City of Adelaide,
being primarily concerned with the planning of Adelaide's urban development
and growth.

## Local governments[edit]

Further information: Local government areas of South Australia

The Adelaide metropolitan area is divided between nineteen local government
areas, including, at its centre, the City of Adelaide, which administers the
Adelaide city centre, North Adelaide, and the surrounding Adelaide Parklands.
It is the oldest municipal authority in Australia and was established in 1840,
when Adelaide and Australia's first mayor, James Hurtle Fisher, was elected.
From 1919 onwards, the City has had a Lord Mayor, the current being Lord Mayor
Martin Haese.[65]

## Demography[edit]

Each dot represents 100 persons born in:

  UK

  Greece

  China

  Italy

|

  Germany

  Lebanon

  Vietnam  
  
---|---  
(Based on 2006 Census data)

Compared with the four other major state capitals in Australia, Adelaide is
growing at a much slower rate. In 2015, Adelaide had a metropolitan population
of more than 1,316,779[66] making it Australia's fifth largest city. Some
77%[67] of the population of South Australia are residents of the Adelaide
metropolitan area, making South Australia one of the most centralised states.

Major areas of population growth in recent years have been in outer suburbs
such as Mawson Lakes and Golden Grove. Adelaide's inhabitants occupy 366,912
houses, 57,695 semi-detached, row terrace or town houses and 49,413 flats,
units or apartments.[66]

About one sixth (17.1%) of the population had university qualifications. The
number of Adelaideans with vocational qualifications (such as tradespersons)
fell from 62.1% of the labour force in the 1991 census to 52.4% in the 2001
census.

Overseas-born Adelaideans composed 29.8% of the total population. Suburbs
including Newton, Payneham and Campbelltown in the east and Torrensville, West
Lakes and Fulham to the west, have large Greek and Italian communities. The
Italian consulate is located in the eastern suburb of Payneham. Large
Vietnamese populations are settled in the north-western suburbs of Woodville,
Kilkenny, Pennington, Mansfield Park and Athol Park and also Parafield Gardens
and Pooraka in Adelaide's north. Migrants from India and Sri Lanka have
settled into inner suburban areas of Adelaide including the inner northern
suburbs of Blair Athol, Kilburn and Enfield and the inner southern suburbs of
Plympton, Park Holme and Kurralta Park.

Chinatown on Moonta Street in the Market precinct

Suburbs such as Para Hills, Salisbury, Ingle Farm and Blair Athol in the north
and Findon, West Croydon and Seaton in the West are experiencing large
migration from Afghanistan and Iran. Chinese migrants favour settling in the
eastern and north eastern suburbs including Kensington Gardens, Greenacres,
Modbury and Golden Grove. Mawson Lakes has a large international student
population, due to its proximity to the University of South Australia campus.
The five largest groups of overseas-born were from UK (7.0%), Italy (1.6%),
India (1.4%), China (1.3%) and Vietnam (1.0%). The most-spoken languages other
than English were Italian (2.6%), Greek (1.9%), Standard Mandarin (1.3%),
Vietnamese (1.3%), and Cantonese (0.7%).[66][ _better  source needed_]

**Significant overseas born populations**  
---  
Country of birth | Population (2011)  
 United Kingdom | 92,174  
 Italy | 21,068  
 India | 18,434  
 China | 17,118  
 Vietnam | 13,167  
  
### Age structure[edit]

Adelaide is ageing more rapidly than other Australian capital cities. More
than a quarter (27.5%) of Adelaide's population is aged 55 years or older, in
comparison to the national average of 25.6%. Adelaide has the lowest number of
children (under-15-year-olds), who comprised 17.7% of the population, compared
to the national average of 19.3%.[66]

### Religion[edit]

Saint Francis Xavier's Cathedral in Victoria Square

Adelaide was founded on a vision of religious tolerance which attracted a wide
variety of religious practitioners. This led to it being known as _The City of
Churches_.[68][69] However, approximately 28% of the population expressed no
religious affiliation in the 2011 Census, compared with the national average
of 22.3%, making Adelaide one of the least religious cities in Australia. Over
half of the population of Adelaide identifies as Christian, with the largest
denominations being Catholic (21.3%), Anglican (12.6%), Uniting Church (7.6%)
and Eastern Orthodox (3.5%).[70]

The Jewish community of the city dates back to 1840. Eight years later, 58
Jews lived in the city.[71] The Jewish synagogue was built in 1871, when 435
Jews lived in the city. Many Jews took part in the city councils, such as
Judah Moss Solomon (1852–66) and others after him. Three Jews have been
elected to the position of city mayor.[72] In the 1960s, the Jewish population
of Adelaide numbered about 1,200; in 2001, according to the Australian census,
979 persons declared themselves to be Jewish by religion.[71] In 2011, over
1,000 Jews were living in the city, operating an orthodox and a reform school,
in addition to a virtual Jewish museum.[73]

The "Afghan" community in Australia first became established in the 1860s when
camels and their Pathan, Punjabi, Baluchi and Sindhi handlers began to be used
to open up settlement in the arid interior of the continent.[74] Until
eventually superseded by the advent of the railways and later, motor vehicles,
they played an invaluable economic and social role in transporting heavy loads
of goods to, and products from, isolated settlements and mines. This role is
acknowledged by the name of The Ghan, the passenger train operating between
Adelaide, Alice Springs, and Darwin. The Central Adelaide Mosque is regarded
as the oldest permanent mosque in Australia; however an earlier mosque at
Marree in northern South Australia, dating from 1861–62 and subsequently
abandoned or demolished, has now been rebuilt.

## Economy[edit]

Flinders Medical Centre. Health care and social assistance is the largest ABS
defined employment sector in South Australia.[75]

The Adelaide-built _Collins_ -class submarine HMAS  _Rankin_ entering Pearl
Harbor, August 2004.

South Australia's largest employment sector is health care and social
assistance,[75][76] surpassing manufacturing in SA as the largest employer
since 2006–07.[75][76] In 2009–10, manufacturing in SA had average annual
employment of 83,700 persons compared with 103,300 for health care and social
assistance.[75] Health care and social assistance represented nearly 13% of
the state average annual employment.[77] The Adelaide Hills wine region is an
iconic and viable economic region for both the state and country in terms of
wine production and sale. The 2014 vintage is reported as consisting of 5,836
t (5,744 long tons; 6,433 short tons) red grapes crushed valued at A$8,196,142
and 12,037 t (11,847 long tons; 13,269 short tons) white grapes crushed valued
at $14,777,631.[78]

The retail trade is the second largest employer in SA (2009–10), with 91,900
jobs, and 12 per cent of the state workforce.[77]

Manufacturing, defence technology, high tech electronic systems and research,
commodity export and corresponding service industries all play a role in the
SA economy. Almost half of all cars produced in Australia were made in
Adelaide at the General Motors Holden plant in Elizabeth.[79] The site ceased
operating in November 2017.

The collapse of the State Bank in 1992 resulted in large levels of state
public debt (as much as A$4 billion). The collapse meant that successive
governments enacted lean budgets, cutting spending, which was a setback to the
further economic development of the city and state. The debt has more recently
been reduced with the State Government once again receiving a AAA+ Credit
Rating.[80]

The global media conglomerate News Corporation was founded in, and until 2004
incorporated in, Adelaide and it is still considered its 'spiritual' home by
Rupert Murdoch. Australia's largest oil company, Santos, prominent South
Australian brewery, Coopers, and national retailer Harris Scarfe also call
Adelaide their home.

### Defence industry[edit]

Adelaide is home to a large proportion of Australia's defence industries,
which contribute over A$1 billion to South Australia's Gross State
Product.[81] The principal government military research institution, the
Defence Science and Technology Organisation, and other defence technology
organisations such as BAE Systems Australia and Lockheed Martin Australia, are
north of Salisbury and west of Elizabeth in an area now called "Edinburgh
Parks", adjacent to RAAF Base Edinburgh.

Others, such as Saab Systems and Raytheon, are in or near Technology Park. ASC
Pty Ltd, based in the industrial suburb of Osborne. South Australia was
charged with constructing Australia's _Collins_ class submarines and more
recently the A$6 billion contract to construct the Royal Australian Navy's new
air-warfare destroyers.[82]

###  Employment statistics[edit]

As of November 2015, Greater Adelaide had an unemployment rate of 7.4% with a
youth unemployment rate of 15%.[83]

The median weekly individual income for people aged 15 years and over was $447
per week in 2006, compared with $466 nationally. The median family income was
$1,137 per week, compared with $1,171 nationally.[84] Adelaide's housing and
living costs are substantially lower than that of other Australian cities,
with housing being notably cheaper. The median Adelaide house price is half
that of Sydney and two-thirds that of Melbourne. The three-month trend
unemployment rate to March 2007 was 6.2%.[85] The Northern suburbs'
unemployment rate is disproportionately higher than the other regions of
Adelaide at 8.3%, while the East and South are lower than the Adelaide average
at 4.9% and 5.0% respectively.[86]

### House prices[edit]

Over the decade March 2001 – March 2010, Metropolitan Adelaide median house
prices approximately tripled. (approx. 285% – approx. 11%p.a. compounding) In
the 5 years March 2007 – March 2012, prices increased by approx. 27% – approx.
5%p.a. compounding. March 2012 – March 2017 saw a further increase of 19% –
approx. 3.5%p.a. compounding.[87][88][89][90]

In summary:

March | 2001 | 2002 | 2003 | 2004 | 2005 | 2006 | 2007 | 2008 | 2009 | 2010 |
2011 | 2012 | 2013 | 2014 | 2015 | 2016 | 2017  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Median | 140,000 | 170,000 | 200,000 | 250,000 | 270,000 | 280,000 | 300,000 |
360,000 | 350,000 | 400,000 | 400,000 | 380,000 | 393,000 | 413,000 | 425,000
| 436,000 | 452,000  
% change |  | 21% | 18% | 25% | 8% | 4% | 7% | 20% | −3% | 14% | 0% | −5% | 3%
| 5% | 3% | 3% | 4%  
  
_All numbers approximate and rounded. Since March 2012, the REISA[91] no
longer release a median house price for the Adelaide Metropolitan area so
figures retrieved are from Dept of the Premier and Cabinet._[90]

Each quarter, The Alternative and Direct Investment Securities Association
(ADISA) publishes a list of median house sale prices by suburb and Local
Government Area.[ _citation needed_ ] (Previously, this was done by REISA[91])
Due to the small size of many of Adelaide's suburbs, the low volumes of sales
in these suburbs, and (over time) the huge variations in the numbers of sales
in a suburb in a quarter, statistical analysis of "the most expensive suburb"
is unreliable; the suburbs appearing in the "top 10 most expensive suburbs
this quarter" list is constantly varying. Quarterly Reports for the last two
years can be found on the REISA website.[92]

## Education and research[edit]

Main article: Education in South Australia

Barr Smith Library, part of the University of Adelaide

Education forms an increasingly important part of the city's economy, with the
South Australian Government and educational institutions attempting to
position Adelaide as "Australia's education hub" and marketing it as a
"Learning City."[93] The number of international students studying in Adelaide
has increased rapidly in recent years to 30,726 in 2015, of which 1,824 were
secondary school students.[94] In addition to the city's existing
institutions, foreign institutions have been attracted to set up campuses in
order to increase its attractiveness as an education hub.[95][96] Adelaide is
the birthplace of three Nobel laureates, more than any other Australian city:
physicist William Lawrence Bragg and pathologists Howard Florey and Robin
Warren, all of whom completed secondary and tertiary education at St Peter's
College and the University of Adelaide.

### Primary and secondary education[edit]

At the level of primary and secondary education, there are two systems of
school education. There is a public system operated by the South Australian
Government and a private system of independent and Catholic schools. All
schools provide education under the South Australian Certificate of Education
(SACE) or, to a lesser extent, the International Baccalaureate (IB), with
Adelaide having the highest number of IB schools in Australia.[ _citation
needed_ ]

### Tertiary education[edit]

Historic Torrens Building in Victoria Square houses campuses of several
international universities operating in South Australia

There are three public universities local to Adelaide, as well as one private
university and three constituent colleges of foreign universities. Flinders
University of South Australia, the University of Adelaide, the University of
South Australia and Torrens University Australia—part of the Laureate
International Universities are based in Adelaide. The University of Adelaide
was ranked in the top 150 universities worldwide. Flinders ranked in the top
250 and Uni SA in the top 300. Torrens University Australia is part of an
international network of over 70 higher education institutions in more than 30
countries worldwide. The historic Torrens Building in Victoria Square[97]
houses Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College Australia, Cranfield
University's Defence College of Management and Technology, and University
College London's School of Energy and Resources (Australia), and constitute
the city's international university precinct.[98]

The University of Adelaide, with 25,000 students,[99] is Australia's third-
oldest university and a member of the leading "Group of Eight". It has five
campuses throughout the state, including two in the city-centre, and a campus
in Singapore. The University of South Australia, with 37,000 students,[100]
has two North Terrace campuses, three other campuses in the metropolitan area
and campuses at Whyalla and Mount Gambier. The Flinders University of South
Australia, with 21,809 students,[101] is in the southern suburb of Bedford
Park, alongside the Flinders Medical Centre, and maintains a small city campus
in Victoria Square.

There are several South Australian TAFE (Technical and Further Education)
campuses in the metropolitan area which provide a range of vocational
education and training. The Adelaide College of the Arts, as a school of TAFE
SA, provides nationally recognised training in visual and performing arts.

### Research[edit]

In addition to the universities, Adelaide is home to a number of research
institutes, including the Royal Institution of Australia, established in 2009
as a counterpart to the two-hundred-year-old Royal Institution of Great
Britain.[102] Many of the organisations involved in research tend to be
geographically clustered throughout the Adelaide metropolitan area:

  * The east end of North Terrace: IMVS;[103] Hanson Institute;[104] RAH; National Wine Centre.
  * The west end of North Terrace: South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute (SAHMRI), located next to the new Royal Adelaide Hospital.
  * The Waite Research Precinct: SARDI Head Office and Plant Research Centre; AWRI;[105] ACPFG;[106] CSIRO research laboratories.[107] SARDI also have establishments at Glenside[108] and West Beach.[109]
  * Edinburgh, South Australia: DSTO; BAE Systems (Australia); Lockheed Martin Australia Electronic Systems.
  * Technology Park (Mawson Lakes): BAE Systems; Optus; Raytheon; Topcon; Lockheed Martin Australia Electronic Systems.
  * Research Park at Thebarton: businesses involved in materials engineering, biotechnology, environmental services, information technology, industrial design, laser/optics technology, health products, engineering services, radar systems, telecommunications and petroleum services.
  * Science Park (adjacent to Flinders University): Playford Capital.
  * The Basil Hetzel Institute for Translational Health Research[110] in Woodville the research arm of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, Adelaide

  * The Mitchell Building and Bonython Hall, University of Adelaide

  * The Hawke Building, part of the UniSA, City West Campus

  * Flinders University buildings from the campus hills

  * Torrens University

  * South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute (SAHMRI)

## Cultural[edit]

The Art Gallery of South Australia, and part of the South Australian Museum on
North Terrace

While established as a British province, and very much English in terms of its
culture, Adelaide attracted immigrants from other parts of Europe early on,
including German and other European non-conformists escaping religious
persecution. The first German Lutherans arrived in 1838[111] bringing with
them the vine cuttings that they used to found the acclaimed wineries of the
Barossa Valley.

### Arts and entertainment[edit]

Adelaide's arts scene flourished in the 1960s and 1970s with the support of
successive premiers from both major political parties. The renowned Adelaide
Festival of Arts and Fringe Festival were established in 1960 under Thomas
Playford. Construction of the Adelaide Festival Centre began under Steele Hall
in 1970 and was completed under the subsequent government of Don Dunstan, who
also established the South Australian Film Corporation and, in 1976, the State
Opera of South Australia.

Over time, the Adelaide Festival has expanded to include the Adelaide Cabaret
Festival, Adelaide Film Festival, Adelaide Festival of Ideas, Adelaide
Writers' Week, and WOMADelaide, all held predominately in the autumnal month
of March (sometimes jocularly called 'mad March' by locals due to the hectic
clustering of these events). Other festivals include FEAST (a queer culture
celebration), Tasting Australia (a biennial food and wine affair), and the
Royal Adelaide Show (an annual agricultural show and state fair).

The Adelaide Convention Centre, the first of its kind in South Australia, is
situated on the River Torrens. Photo taken in 2007.

There are many international cultural fairs, most notably the German
Schützenfest and Greek Glendi. Adelaide is home to the Adelaide Christmas
Pageant, the world's largest Christmas parade.[ _citation needed_ ] As the
state capital, Adelaide is home to a great number of cultural institutions
with many along the boulevard of North Terrace. The Art Gallery of South
Australia, with around 35,000 works, holds Australia's second largest state-
based collection. Adjacent are the South Australian Museum and State Library
of South Australia, while the Adelaide Botanic Garden, National Wine Centre
and Tandanya National Aboriginal Cultural Institute are nearby in the East End
of the city. In the back of the State Library lies the Migration Museum,
Australia's oldest museum of its kind. Contemporary art scenes include the
Contemporary Art Centre of South Australia. Adelaide Festival Centre, on the
banks of the Torrens, is the focal point for much of the cultural activity in
the city and home to the State Theatre Company of South Australia, with other
venues including the Adelaide Entertainment Centre and the city's many smaller
theatres, pubs and cabaret bars.

The Adelaide Town Hall

The music of Adelaide has produced musical groups and individuals who have
achieved national and international fame. This includes the Adelaide Symphony
Orchestra, the Adelaide Youth Orchestra, rock bands The Angels, Cold Chisel,
The Superjesus, Wolf & Cub, roots/blues group The Audreys, internationally
acclaimed metal acts I Killed The Prom Queen and Double Dragon, popular
Australian hip-hop outfit Hilltop Hoods, pop acts like Sia, Orianthi, Guy
Sebastian, and Wes Carr, as well as internationally successful tribute act,
The Australian Pink Floyd Show.

Noted rocker Jimmy Barnes spent most of his youth in the northern suburb of
Elizabeth. Paul Kelly grew up in Adelaide and was head prefect at Rostrevor
College. The first _Australian Idol_ winner, Guy Sebastian, hails from the
north-eastern suburb of Golden Grove. American musician Ben Folds used to base
himself in Adelaide when he was married to Australian Frally Hynes. Folds
recorded a song about Adelaide before he moved away. In addition to its own
WOMADelaide, Adelaide attracts several touring music festivals, including Big
Day Out, Creamfields, Future Music, Laneway, Parklife, Soundwave, Stereosonic
and Summadayze

Adelaide plays host to two of Australia's leading contemporary dance
companies. The Australian Dance Theatre and Leigh Warren & Dancers contribute
to state festivals and perform nationally and internationally. Restless Dance
Theatre is also based in Adelaide and is nationally recognised for working
with disabled and non-disabled dancers to use movement as a means of
expression.

Adelaide has been recognised as a "City of Music" by the UNESCO Creative
Cities Network.[112]

In 2014, Ghil'ad Zuckermann founded the Adelaide Language Festival.[113][114]

#### Concert venues[edit]

The Adelaide Entertainment Centre, the largest indoor sports and entertainment
venue in Adelaide

Adelaide pop-concert venues (past and present) include Adelaide Entertainment
Centre; Adelaide Festival Theatre; Adelaide Oval; Apollo Stadium; Memorial
Drive Park; Thebarton Theatre. Other concert and live theatre venues include
Adelaide Town Hall; Dunstan Playhouse; Her Majesty's Theatre.

### Media[edit]

Sir Keith Murdoch House, named after the founder of _The News_ , is the
headquarters for the publisher of Adelaide's daily newspaper, _The
Advertiser_.

####  Newspapers[edit]

Newspapers in Adelaide are dominated by News Corporation publications—Adelaide
being the birthplace of News Corporation itself. The only South Australian
daily newspaper is _The Advertiser_ , published by News Corporation six days a
week. The same group publishes a Sunday paper, the _Sunday Mail_.

There are eleven suburban community newspapers published weekly, known
collectively as the _Messenger Newspapers_ , also published by a subsidiary of
News Corporation. _The Independent Weekly_ was a small independent newspaper
providing an alternative view, but ceased publishing its print edition in
November 2010 and now exists as a digital daily newsletter only. _The Adelaide
Review_ is a free paper published fortnightly, and other independent magazine-
style papers are published, but are not as widely available.

####  Television[edit]

Adelaide is served by twenty-eight digital free-to-air television channels:

  1. ABC
  2. ABC (ABC broadcast in HD)
  3. ABC2/KIDS
  4. ABC Me
  5. ABC News
  6. SBS
  7. SBS HD (SBS broadcast in HD)
  8. SBS Viceland
  9. Food Network
  10. NITV
  11. Seven
  12. 7HD (Seven broadcast in HD)
  13. 7Two
  14. 7mate
  15. 7flix
  16. TV4ME
  17. Racing.com
  18. Nine
  19. 9HD (Nine broadcast in HD)
  20. 9Gem
  21. 9Go!
  22. 9Life
  23. eXtra
  24. Ten
  25. Ten HD (Ten broadcast in HD)
  26. One
  27. Eleven
  28. TVSN
  29. Spree TV
  30. C44 Adelaide (Adelaide's community TV station)

All of the five Australian national television networks broadcast both high
definition digital and standard-definition television digital services in
Adelaide. They share three transmission towers on the ridge near the summit of
Mount Lofty. Two other transmission sites are located at Grenfell Street and
Elizabeth Downs.[115] The two government-funded stations are run by the
Australian Broadcasting Corporation (ABC South Australia) and the Special
Broadcasting Service (SBS). The Seven Network and Network Ten both own their
Adelaide stations (SAS-7 and ADS-10 respectively).

Adelaide's NWS-9 is part of the Nine Network. New channels available in
addition to ABC, Seven, Nine, Ten and SBS include Ten HD, (Channel Ten
broadcast in HD), One, Eleven, TVSN, Spree TV, ABC2/KIDS, ABC3, ABC News, SBS
HD (SBS broadcast in HD), SBS2, Food Network, NITV, 7HD (Channel 7 broadcast
in HD), 7Two, 7mate, 7flix, TV4ME, RACING.COM, 9HD (Channel Nine broadcast in
HD), 9Gem, 9Go!, 9Life and eXtra. Adelaide also has a community television
station, Channel 44. The Foxtel pay TV service is available as cable
television in a few areas, and as satellite television to the entire
metropolitan area. It is resold by a number of other brands, mostly telephone
companies.

As part of a nationwide phase-out of analogue television in Australia,
Adelaide's analogue television service was shut down on 2 April 2013.[116]

#### Radio[edit]

There are twenty radio stations that serve the metropolitan area, as well as
four community stations that serve only parts of the metropolitan area. Of the
twenty full coverage stations, there are six commercial stations, six
community stations, six national stations and two narrowcast stations. A
complete list can be found at List of radio stations in Australia#Adelaide.

Commercial stations include:

  * AM Band: Cruise 1323, FIVEaa 1395
  * FM Band: Nova 91.9, Mix 102.3, Triple M 104.7, SAFM 107.1

|     | ABC and other non-profit stations include:

  * AM Band: Radio National 729, 891 Adelaide (Local Radio), NewsRadio 972
  * FM Band: Classic FM 103.9, Triple J 105.5, Fresh FM 92.7, Radio Adelaide 101.5, Three D Radio 93.7

  
---|---|---  
  
### Icons[edit]

Main article: List of South Australian commercial icons

## Sport[edit]

Main article: Sport in South Australia

Adelaide Oval is the home of Australian rules football and cricket in South
Australia.

Hindmarsh Stadium hosts Adelaide United.

Titanium Security Arena is home to basketball in South Australia.

The main sports played professionally in Adelaide are Australian rules
football, association football (soccer), cricket, netball, and basketball.
Adelaide is the home of two Australian Football League teams: the Adelaide
Football Club and Port Adelaide Football Club, and one A-League soccer team,
Adelaide United. A local Australian rules football league, the SANFL, is made
up of ten teams from around Adelaide. The SANFL has been in operation since
1877 when it began as the South Australian Football Association (SAFL) before
changing its name to the SANFL in 1927. The SANFL is the oldest surviving
football league of any code played in Australia.[ _citation needed_ ] Adelaide
has developed a strong culture of attracting crowds to major sporting
events.[117] Until the completion of the 2012–14 renovation and upgrade of the
Adelaide Oval, most large sporting events took place at either AAMI Stadium
(the then home base of the Adelaide Crows, and the then Port Adelaide's home
game venue), or the historic Adelaide Oval, home of the Southern Redbacks and
the Adelaide Strikers cricket teams. Since completion of the upgrade, home
games for Adelaide Crows & Port Adelaide now take place at Adelaide Oval.

Since 1884, Adelaide Oval has also hosted an international cricket test every
summer, along with a number of One Day International cricket matches. Memorial
Drive Park, adjacent to the Adelaide Oval, used to host Davis Cup and other
major tennis events, including the Australian Open and (until 2009) the
Adelaide International (now known as the Brisbane International). Adelaide's
professional association football team, Adelaide United, play in the A-League.
Founded in 2003, their home ground is Hindmarsh Stadium, which has a capacity
of 17,000 and is one of the few purpose-built soccer stadia in Australia.

For two years, 1997 and 1998, Adelaide was represented in Australia's top
level rugby league, after the New South Wales Rugby League had played a single
game per season at the Adelaide Oval for five years starting in 1991.[118] The
Adelaide Rams were formed and played in the breakaway Super League (SL)
competition in 1997 before moving to the new National Rugby League in 1998.
Initially playing at the Adelaide Oval, the club moved to the more suitable
Hindmarsh Stadium late in the 1998 season. As part of a peace deal with the
Australian Rugby League to end the Super League war, the club's owners News
Limited (who were also owners of the SL) suddenly closed the club only weeks
before the start of the 1999 season.

Adelaide has two professional basketball teams, the men's team being the
Adelaide 36ers who play in the National Basketball League (NBL) and the
women's team, the Adelaide Lightning who play in the Women's National
Basketball League (WNBL). Both teams play their home games at the Titanium
Security Arena. Adelaide has a professional netball team, the Adelaide
Thunderbirds, who play in the national netball competition, the Suncorp Super
Netball championship, with home games played at Priceline Stadium. The
Thunderbirds occasionally play games or finals at the Titanium Security Arena,
while international netball matches are usually played at the 10,500 seat
Adelaide Entertainment Centre. The Titanium Security Arena has a capacity of
8,000 in is the largest purpose built basketball stadium in Australia.

The Tour Down Under is the first event of the UCI World Tour calendar.

Since 1999 Adelaide and its surrounding areas has hosted the Tour Down Under
bicycle race, organised and directed by Adelaide-based Mike Turtur. Turtur won
an Olympic gold medal for Australia in the 4000m Team pursuit at the 1984 Los
Angeles Olympics. The Tour Down Under is the largest cycling event outside
Europe and was the first event outside Europe to be granted UCI ProTour
status. Adelaide maintains a franchise in the Australian Baseball League, the
Adelaide Bite. They have been playing since 2009, and their home stadium
(until 2016) was Norwood Oval. From 2016 the team moved to the Diamond Sports
Stadium located near the Adelaide International Airport due to renovations at
Norwood. Their name stems from the local Great Australian Bight, and from the
abundance of local Great White Sharks. Adelaide also has an Ice Hockey team,
Adelaide Adrenaline in the Australian Ice Hockey League (AIHL). They were
national champions in 2009 and play their games at the IceArenA.[119]

The Australian Grand Prix for World Championship Formula One racing was hosted
by Adelaide from 1985 to 1995 on the Adelaide Street Circuit which was laid
out in the city's East End as well as the eastern parklands including the
Victoria Park Racecourse.[38] The Grand Prix became a source of pride and
losing the event to Melbourne in a surprise announcement in mid-1993 left a
void that has since been filled with the highly successful Clipsal 500 for V8
Supercar racing, held on a modified version of the same street circuit. The
Classic Adelaide, a rally of classic sporting vehicles, is also held in the
city and its surrounds.

Adelaide formerly had three horse racing venues. Victoria Park, Cheltenham
Park Racecourse, both of which have now closed, and Morphettville Racecourse
which remains as the home of the South Australian Jockey Club. It also has
Globe Derby Park for Harness racing which opened in 1969 and by 1973 had
become Adelaide's premier harness racing venue taking over from the Wayville
Showgrounds, as well as Greyhound Park for greyhound racing which opened in
1972.

The World Solar Challenge race attracts teams from around the world, most of
which are fielded by universities or corporations, although some are fielded
by high schools. The race has a 20-year history spanning nine races, with the
inaugural event taking place in 1987. Adelaide hosted the 2012 World Bowls
Championships[120] at Lockleys Bowling Club, becoming the third city in the
world to have held the championships twice, having previously hosted the event
in 1996.

Dirt track speedway is also popular in Adelaide with three operating
speedways. Adelaide Motorsport Park, located adjacent to the Adelaide
International Raceway road racing circuit at Virginia (24 km (15 mi) north of
the city centre) has been in continuous operation since 1979 after the closure
of the popular Rowley Park Speedway. Gillman Speedway located in the semi-
industrial suburb of Gillman, has been in operation since 1998 and caters to
Motorcycle speedway and Sidecars, while the Sidewinders Speedway located in
Wingfield is also a motorcycle speedway dedicated to Under-16 riders and has
been in operation since 1978.

## Infrastructure[edit]

### Health[edit]

The South Australian Health and Medical Research Institute (SAHMRI) located on
North Terrace

Construction of the University of Adelaide Health & Medical Sciences Building

Adelaide's two largest tertiary hospitals are the Royal Adelaide Hospital
(RAH), a teaching hospital of the University of Adelaide (705 beds), and the
Flinders Medical Centre (580 beds) in Bedford Park, a teaching hospital of
Flinders University. Other major public hospitals in the Adelaide area are the
Women's and Children's Hospital (305 beds), on King William Road in North
Adelaide; the Queen Elizabeth Hospital (340 beds) in Woodville and the Lyell
McEwin Hospital (198 beds) in Elizabeth. These hospitals are all teaching
hospitals. Additional RAH campuses which specialise in specific patient
services are in the suburbs of Adelaide – the Hampstead Rehabilitation Centre
in Northfield, and the Glenside Campus Mental Health Service. Adelaide also
hosts numerous private hospitals in the city centre and suburbs.

In June 2007 the State Government announced a series of overhauls to the
health sector that would see a new hospital constructed on railyards at the
west end of the city, to replace the Royal Adelaide Hospital at the east end
of the city. The new 800-bed hospital has a cost of A$1.85 billion and was
planned to be named the "Marjorie Jackson-Nelson Hospital" after the former
Governor of South Australia.[121] However, in 2009, at the former governor's
request, the state government chose to drop this name and instead transfer the
Royal Adelaide Hospital name to the proposed facility. Construction started in
June 2011 and is expected to be completed in 2016.[122]

In addition, major upgrades were announced to see the Flinders Medical Centre
become the primary centre for health care for the southern suburbs, and the
Lyell McEwin Hospital in Elizabeth become the centre for the northern suburbs.
The trio of the Queen Elizabeth Hospital, the Modbury Hospital and the
Noarlunga Hospital were to become specialist elective surgery centres. The
Repatriation General Hospital was also to expand its range of speciality areas
beyond veterans' health to incorporate stroke, orthopaedic rehabilitation and
aged care.[123] With the "Global Financial Crisis" of 2008, it remains to be
seen if and how these initiatives will proceed.

The largest not-for-profit provider of community health care within Adelaide
is the Royal District Nursing Service (South Australia) which provides out of
hospital care and hospital avoidance care, which in turn eases pressure on the
South Australia public hospital system.

### Transport[edit]

Main article: Transport in Adelaide

A map of Adelaide's railway and tram network, served by the Adelaide Metro.

Being centrally located on the Australian mainland, Adelaide forms a strategic
transport hub for east-west and north-south routes. The city itself has a
metropolitan-wide public transport system, which is managed by and known as
the Adelaide Metro. The Adelaide Metro consists of a contracted bus system
including the O-Bahn Busway, metropolitan railways (with diesel and electric
lines), and the Adelaide-Glenelg Tram, which was extended as a metropolitan
tram in 2010 through the city centre to the inner north-west suburb of
Hindmarsh. There are further plans to extend the tram to Port Adelaide and
Semaphore. A CBD tram loop too, is being considered and the latest Adelaide
Airport master plan has also revealed a tram extension to the airport in the
near future.[124][125]

Road transport in Adelaide has historically been comparatively easier than
many of the other Australian cities, with a well-defined city layout and wide
multiple-lane roads from the beginning of its development. Historically,
Adelaide was known as a "twenty-minute city", with commuters having been able
to travel from metropolitan outskirts to the city proper in roughly twenty
minutes. However, these roads are now often considered inadequate to cope with
Adelaide's growing road traffic, and often experience traffic congestion.[126]

The Adelaide metropolitan area has one freeway and three expressways. In order
of construction, they are:

  * The South Eastern Freeway (M1), connects the south-east corner of the Adelaide Plain to the Adelaide Hills and beyond to Murray Bridge and Tailem Bend, where it then continues as National Highway 1 south-east to Melbourne.
  * The Southern Expressway (M2), connecting the outer southern suburbs with the inner southern suburbs and the city centre. It duplicates the route of South Road.
  * The North-South Motorway (M2), is an ongoing major project that will become the major north-south corridor, replacing most of what is now South Road, connecting the Southern Expressway and the Port River Expressway. Currently, the motorway runs as an elevated freeway from its junction with the Port River Expressway to Regency Road, in Adelaide's inner north-west. Continuation of the motorway is currently under construction at both ends of the motorway, at Darlington and in the "Torrens to Torrens" project.
  * The Port River Expressway (A9), connects Port Adelaide and Outer Harbor to Port Wakefield Road at the northern "entrance" to the metropolitan area.
  * The Northern Expressway (Max Fatchen Expressway) (M20), is the northern suburbs bypass route connecting the Sturt Highway (National Highway 20) via the Gawler Bypass to Port Wakefield Road at a point a few kilometres north of the Port River Expressway connection.
  * The Northern Connector (proposed route M20) is due to start construction in 2016 to connect the North-South Motorway with the Northern Expressway. The road will not be subject to direct tolls, but South Australia will become a testing ground for a "network fee" which involves charging trucks based on road use and impact in place of high registration fees.

#### Airports[edit]

A Qantas plane leaving Adelaide Airport.

The Adelaide metropolitan area has two commercial airports, Adelaide Airport
and Parafield Airport. Adelaide Airport, in Adelaide's western suburbs, serves
in excess of 8 million passengers annually.[127] Parafield Airport, Adelaide's
second airport 18 kilometres (11 miles) north of the city centre, is used for
small aircraft, pilot training and recreational aviation purposes. Parafield
Airport served as Adelaide's main aerodrome until the opening of the Adelaide
Airport in February 1955.

### Utilities[edit]

Aerial view of Happy Valley Reservoir in early 2007

Adelaide's energy requirements were originally met by the Adelaide Electric
Supply Company, which was nationalised by the Playford government in
1946,[128] becoming the Electricity Trust of South Australia (ETSA), now known
as SA Power Networks. Despite significant public opposition and the Labor
party's anti-privatisation stance which left the Liberal party one vote short
of the numbers needed to pass the legislation, ETSA was privatised by the
Olsen Government in 1999 by way of a 200-year lease for the distribution
network and the outright purchase of ETSA Power by the Cheung Kong Holdings
for $3.5 billion (11 times ETSA's annual earnings) after Labor MP Trevor
Crothers resigned from the party and voted with the government.[129][130]

The electricity retail market was opened to competition in 2003 and although
competition was expected to result in lower retail costs, prices increased by
23.7% in the market's first year.[131] In 2004 the privatisation was deemed to
be a failure with consumers paying 60% more for their power and with the state
government estimated to lose $3 billion in power generation net income in the
first ten years of privatisation.[132] In 2012, the industry came under
scrutiny for allegedly reducing supply by shutting down generators during
periods of peak demand to force prices up. Increased media attention also
revealed that in 2009 the state government had approved a 46% increase in
retail prices to cover expected increases in the costs of generation while
generation costs had in fact fallen 35% by 2012.[ _citation needed_ ] These
price increases and large subsidies have led to South Australia paying the
highest retail price for electricity in the world.[133][134]

SA Power Networks now distributes electricity from transmission companies to
end users. Privatisation led to competition from a variety of companies who
now separately provide for the generation, transmission, distribution and
retail sales of gas and electricity. Some of the major companies are:
TRUenergy, which generates electricity; ElectraNet, which transmits
electricity from the generators to the distribution network, Lumo Energy and
AGL Energy, which retails gas and electricity.[135] Substantial investment has
been made in maintenance and reinforcement of the electricity supply network
to provide continued reliability of supply.

Adelaide derives most of its electricity from the Torrens Island Power Station
gas-fired plant operated by AGL Energy and the Pelican Point Power Station,
along with wind power and connections to the national grid. Gas is supplied
from the Moomba Gas Processing Plant in the Cooper Basin via the Moomba
Adelaide Pipeline System[136] and the SEAGas pipeline from Victoria. South
Australia generates 18% of its electricity from wind power, and has 51% of the
installed capacity of wind generators in Australia.[137]

Adelaide's water supply is gained from its reservoirs: Mount Bold, Happy
Valley, Myponga, Millbrook, Hope Valley, Little Para and South Para. The yield
from these reservoir catchments can be as little as 10% of the city's
requirements in drought years and about 60% in average years. The remaining
demand is met by the pumping of water from the River Murray. A sea water
desalination plant capable of supplying half of Adelaide's water requirements
(100GL per annum) was commissioned in 2013. The provision of water services is
by the government-owned SA Water.

## See also[edit]

  * Adelaide portal
  * South Australia portal

  * Adelaide city centre
  * Adelaide Hills
  * City of Adelaide
  * Music of Adelaide
  * Port Adelaide

Lists

  * Images of Adelaide
  * List of Adelaide obsolete suburb names
  * List of Adelaide parks and gardens
  * List of Adelaide railway stations
  * List of Adelaide suburbs
  * List of people from Adelaide
  * List of protected areas in Adelaide
  * List of public art in South Australia
  * List of public transport routes in Adelaide
  * List of sporting clubs in Adelaide
  * List of tallest buildings in Adelaide
  * Tourist attractions in South Australia

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "3218.0 – Regional Population Growth, Australia, 2015–16: Ten years of growth: Australia's population hot spots". Australian Bureau of Statistics. 29 July 2017. Retrieved  29 July 2017. 
  2. **^** "2011 Census Community Profiles, Code 4GADE (GCCSA)". Australian Bureau of Statistics. Retrieved  28 February 2015. 
  3. **^** "Great Circle Distance between ADELAIDE and MELBOURNE". Geoscience Australia. March 2004.  
  4. **^** "Great Circle Distance between ADELAIDE and CANBERRA". Geoscience Australia. March 2004.  
  5. **^** "Great Circle Distance between ADELAIDE and SYDNEY". Geoscience Australia. March 2004.  
  6. **^** "Great Circle Distance between ADELAIDE and Brisbane". Geoscience Australia. March 2004.  
  7. **^** "Great Circle Distance between ADELAIDE and Perth". Geoscience Australia. March 2004.  
  8. **^** _Macquarie ABC Dictionary_. The Macquarie Library Pty Ltd. 2003. p.  10\. ISBN 1-876429-37-2. 
  9. **^** Troy, Patrick (2000). _A History of European Housing in Australia_. Cambridge University Press. p.  188\. ISBN 978-0-521-77733-9. 
  10. **^** "Progressive Adelaide". _BBC_. Retrieved  26 January 2017. 
  11. **^** Religion: Diversity Archived 10 August 2013 at the Wayback Machine., SA Memory. Retrieved on 23 December 2010.
  12. **^** Salt, Bernard (27 March 2011). "Adelaide's European twin". _Sunday Mail_. Adelaide: News Limited. Retrieved  16 April 2011. [...] the Adelaideans could withdraw to vantage points within the city centre [...] 
  13. **^** "On your bike, Adelaide". _Adelaidean_. Adelaide: University of Adelaide. 2015. Retrieved  7 March 2016. It could be argued that Adelaideans are easily influenced by all things wheels [...] 
  14. **^** "Liveability rankings". _The Economist_.  
  15. **^** "404". Archived from the original on 24 July 2012.  
  16. **^** "Liveability ranking". _The Economist_.  
  17. **^** "Daily chart". _The Economist_.  
  18. **^** "Adelaide crowned nation's most livable city". _ABC News Online_. Australian Broadcasting Corporation. 22 January 2011. Retrieved  23 January 2011. 
  19. **^** "Adelaide voted nation's most liveable". _AdelaideNow_. 25 March 2012. Retrieved  2 July 2012. 
  20. **^** "Adelaide the country's most liveable city". _The Sydney Morning Herald_. 4 March 2013. Retrieved  4 March 2013. 
  21. **^** [1] Archived 15 May 2013 at the Wayback Machine.
  22. **^** Amery, Rob (2000). _Warrabarna Kaurna! – Reclaiming an Australian Language_. The Netherlands: Swets  & Zeitlinger. ISBN 90-265-1633-9. 
  23. **^** "City of Holdfast Bay – Proclamation Day". Archived from the original on 13 July 2012.  
  24. **^** Johnson and Langmead, _The Adelaide city plan: fiction and fact_, Wakefield Press, 1986.
  25. **^** Wakefield cites:
    * Edward Curr, _An Account of the Colony of Van Diemen's Land, principally designed for the use of emigrants_ , George Cowie & Co., London, 1824;
    * Henry Widdowson, _Present State of Van Diemen's Land; comprising an account of its agricultural capabilities, with observations on the present state of farming, &c. &c. pursued in that colony: and other important matters connected with Emigration_, S. Robinson, W. Joy and J. Cross, London, and J. Birdsall, Northampton, 1829; and
    * James Atkinson, _An Account of the State of Agriculture & Grazing in New South Wales; Including Observations on the Soils and General Appearance of the Country, and some of its most useful natural productions; with an account of the Various Methods of Clearing and Improving Lands, Breeding and Grazing Live Stock, Erecting Buildings, the System of employing Convicts, and the expense of Labour generally; the Mode of Applying for Grants of Land; with Other Information Important to those who are about to emigrate to that Country: The result of several years' residence and practical experience in those matters in the Colony_., J. Cross, London, 1826
  26. **^** Wakefield, _Letter from Sydney_ , December 1829, pp. 99–185, written from Newgate prison. Editor Robert Gouger.
  27. **^** Wakefield wrote about this under a pseudonym, purporting to be an Australian settler. His subterfuge was so successful that he confused later writers including Karl Marx, who wrote "It is the great merit of E.G. Wakefield to have discovered not anything new about the Colonies, but to have discovered in the Colonies the truth of as to the condition of capitalist production in the mother-country.' _Das Kapital_ , Moscow, 1958, p 766"
  28. **^** _Plan of a Company to be Established for the Purpose of Founding a Colony in Southern Australia, Purchasing Land Therein, and Preparing the Land so Purchased for the Reception of Immigrants_ , 1832; in Wakefield, Edward Gibbon, Prichard, M. F., (ed.) _The Collected Works of Edward Gibbon Wakefield_ , Collins, London, 1968, p 290.
  29. **^** J. W. Bull; Early Experiences of Colonial Life in South Australia (Adelaide, 1878) p.67
  30. **^** "Free Settlement". _History of Adelaide Gaol_. Environment.sa.gov.au. Archived from the original on 24 October 2009. Retrieved  7 September 2010. 
  31. **^** "Gaol Founders". _History of Adelaide Gaol_. Environment.sa.gov.au. Archived from the original on 25 October 2009. Retrieved  14 August 2012. 
  32. **^** "Light's Vision". _History of Adelaide Gaol_. Environment.sa.gov.au. Archived from the original on 25 October 2009. Retrieved  7 September 2010. 
  33. **^** Blair, Robert D. (2001). "Events in South Australian History 1834–1857". _Pioneer Association of South Australia_. Retrieved  10 May 2006. 
  34. **^** "Council on Tall Buildings and Urban Habitat database". Retrieved  30 May 2016. 
  35. **^** F.K. Crowley, _Modern Australia in Documents: 1901–1939_
  36. **^** Cockburn, S (1991): _Playford – Benevolent Despot._ Axiom Publishing. P. 85. ISBN 0 9594164 4 7
  37. **^** When Chrysler stopped manufacturing in Adelaide, Mitsubishi Motors Australia Limited took over the Tonsley Park factory. After many years of mixed fortunes, Mitsubishi ceased manufacturing at Tonsley Park on 27 March 2008.
  38. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Adelaide Street Circuit". Formula 1 Database. Archived from the original on 11 October 2007. Retrieved  13 June 2007. 
  39. **^** "All-round country". _The Australian_. 29 September 2004. p.  14. 
  40. **^** Michael Owen, The Australian, 3 December 2009
  41. **^** ABC News, Wednesday 7 June 2006
  42. **^** ABC News, 6 April 2005
  43. **^** ABC News, 13 May 2009
  44. **^** ABC News, 29 June 2011
  45. **^** News Release Government of SA, 15 May 2005
  46. **^** Nick Harmsen, ABC News, 11 September 2007
  47. **^** Adelaide Advertiser 26 February 2010
  48. **^** The Adelaide Metropolitan Coastline _Coastline_ , South Australian Coastal Protection Board, No. 27, April 1993. Retrieved 6 December 2015.
  49. **^** C. Kerr-Grant (1955): _The Adelaide Earthquake of 1 March 1954_ (PDF). South Australian Museum, 10 November 1955. Retrieved 5 April 2009.
  50. **^** _Adelaide, SA: Earthquake_. EMA Disasters Database. Emergency Management Australia, 13 September 2006. Retrieved 5 April 2009.
  51. **^** Page, M. (1981): _Port Adelaide and its Institute, 1851–1979._ Rigby Publishers Ltd. Pp.17–20. ISBN 0-7270-1510-9
  52. **^** _Adelaide's Inner and Outer Ring Routes_ Archived 6 March 2014 at the Wayback Machine., 24 August 2004, South Australian Department of Transport.
  53. **^** "Adelaide's Freeways – A History from MATS to the Port River Expressway". _Ozroads_.  
  54. **^** "Clipsal site at Bowden to become a green village", Ministerial Press Release, 24 October 2008, SA Govt. Retrieved 20 November 2008.
  55. **^** "Government reveals Clipsal site purchase price", Ministerial Press Release, 15 November 2008, SA Govt. Retrieved 14 August 2012.
  56. **^** Gibbs, R.M. (2013): _Under the burning sun: a history of colonial South Australia, 1836–1900_. Peacock Publications. Pp. 58, 333–4. ISBN 978-1-921601-85-9
  57. **^** Sheard, M. J., & A. P. Belperio (1995): "Problem soils". In: Drexel, J. F. & Preiss, W. V. (eds.) _The geology of South Australia_. Vol.2, The Phanerozoic. p. 274. South Australia Geological Survey, Bulletin 54. ISBN 978-0-7308-0621-9
  58. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rosemary Cadden: _Building South Australia: celebrating 125 years_. Solstice Media. pp. 77, 87. ISBN 978-0-646-51343-0
  59. **^** Tapper, Andrew; Tapper, Nigel (1996). Gray, Kathleen, ed. _The weather and climate of Australia and New Zealand_ (First ed.). Melbourne, Australia: Oxford University Press. p.  300\. ISBN 0-19-553393-3. 
  60. **^** Copyright Global Sea Temperatures – A-Connect Ltd. "Glenelg Sea Temperature | Australia Water Temperatures". 34.983330;138.516670: Seatemperature.org. Retrieved 2017-09-20. 
  61. **^** "Climate statistics for ADELAIDE (KENT TOWN)". _Climate statistics for Australian locations_. Bureau of Meteorology. Retrieved  June 18, 2017. 
  62. **^** "Lowest Temperature - 023090". Bureau of Meteorology. Retrieved  June 18, 2017. 
  63. **^** "Highest Temperature - 023090". Bureau of Meteorology. Retrieved  June 18, 2017. 
  64. **^** "Capital City Committee". Government of South Australia and Adelaide City Council. October 2008. Archived from the original on 18 June 2009. Retrieved  20 June 2009. 
  65. **^** Businessman Martin Haese elected as Lord Mayor of Adelaide, ousting Stephen Yarwood ABC News, 10 November 2014. Accessed 10 November 2014.
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Population Of Adelaide In 2016". Australiapopulation2016.com. 2016-01-13. Retrieved  2017-09-20. 
  67. **^** 3218.0 – Regional Population Growth, Australia, 2013–14 Archived 20 February 2016 at the Wayback Machine. SOUTH AUSTRALIA STATE SUMMARY Australian Bureau of Statistice, 31 March 2015. Retrieved 11 February 2016.
  68. **^** "Religion: Diversity". Archived from the original on 10 August 2013. Retrieved  15 November 2013. 
  69. **^** "Religious freedom". Archived from the original on 9 March 2014. Retrieved  15 November 2013. 
  70. **^** "2011 Census – Greater Adelaide".  
  71. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Adelaide, Jewish Virtual Library, Encyclopaedia Judica, 2008.
  72. **^** Adelaide, JewishEncyclopedia.com, 1906.
  73. **^** Adelaide Jewish Museum Archived 16 December 2013 at the Wayback Machine.
  74. **^** Westrip, J.; Holroyde, P. (2010). _Colonial Cousins: a surprising history of connections between India and Australia_. _Wakefield Press_. Kent Town, South Australia. ISBN 978-1-86254-841-1. OL 24582860M.  
  75. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "1345.4 – SA Stats, June 2011".  
  76. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Health now our biggest employer – Adelaide Now".  
  77. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ 1345.4 – SA Stats, Apr 2011. Abs.gov.au. Retrieved on 26 July 2013.
  78. **^** PGIBSA, 2014, page 25
  79. **^** "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 August 2007. Retrieved 26 July 2011. 
  80. **^** [2] [ _dead link_ ]
  81. **^** Visualised: How Defence dominates govt tenders in SA _InDaily_ , 28 August 2013. Retrieved 11 January 2016.
  82. **^** _South Australia: The Defence Industry Choice_, Defence SA.
  83. **^** "Workforce Wizard | WorkReady – Skills and Employment". Skills.sa.gov.au. 2017-09-14. Retrieved  2017-09-20. 
  84. **^** Australian Bureau of Statistics (25 October 2007). "Adelaide (Statistical Division)". _2006 Census QuickStats_. Retrieved  28 February 2008. 
  85. **^** _Adelaide_ Archived 4 September 2007 at the Wayback Machine., Labour Market Information Portal.
  86. **^** _SA Regional Labour Force Data_ Archived 19 June 2007 at the Wayback Machine., April 2007, Australian Bureau of Statistics Labour Force Survey.
  87. **^** http://wic003lc.server-web.com/~admin417/uploads/Stats/Stats%20Mar10.pdf Archived 1 March 2012 at the Wayback Machine.
  88. **^** http://www.reisa.com.au/documents/item/58
  89. **^** http://www.reisa.com.au/documents/item/54
  90. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Australia, Government of South. "Median house sales by quarter". _www.sa.gov.au_. Retrieved  2017-06-21. 
  91. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Real Estate Institute of South Australia (REISA)
  92. **^** "Public Information – REISA".  
  93. **^** Edwards, Verity (3 May 2008). "Education attracts record numbers". _The Weekend Australian_.  
  94. **^** Broadstock, Amelia (6 May 2015). "International Uni student numbers a billion dollar boom for Adelaide". _The City Messenger_.  
  95. **^** Hodges, Lucy (29 May 2008). "Brave new territory: University College London to open a branch in Australia". _The Independent (UK)_.  
  96. **^** "About Heinz Australia: Carnegie Mellon Heinz College". Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from the original on 10 April 2011.  
  97. **^** The historic Torrens Building in Victoria Square was beautifully restored at (considerable) taxpayer expense not long before SA Premier Mike Rann announced that it would be used as the core of Adelaide's international university precinct.[ _citation needed_ ]
  98. **^** "Carnegie Mellon University". _GoingToUni.gov.au_. Government of South Australia. Archived from the original on 23 November 2011.  
  99. **^** "Facts & Figures". University of Adelaide. Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved  1 June 2012. 
  100. **^** "Facts about UniSA". University of South Australia. Archived from the original on 1 July 2012. Retrieved  1 June 2012. 
  101. **^** "Our facts and figures". Flinders University. Archived from the original on 1 July 2012. Retrieved  1 June 2012. 
  102. **^** Edwards, Verity (3 May 2008). "RI Australia plugs into world science". _The Weekend Australian_.  
  103. **^** History, Our research, Institute of Medical and Veterinary Science
  104. **^** About us, History, Hanson Institute Archived 25 July 2008 at the Wayback Machine.
  105. **^** The Australian Wine Research Institute (AWRI), awri.com.au
  106. **^** Australian Centre for Plant Functional Genomics (ACPFG), acpfg.com.au
  107. **^** [3] Archived 10 October 2011 at the Wayback Machine.
  108. **^** author. "Livestock – Glenside Laboratories". 
  109. **^** author. "SARDI". 
  110. **^** http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/news/south-australia/a-great-of-the-sa-science-world/story-e6frea83-1226366172413
  111. **^** Monteath, P., Paul, M., & Martin, R. (2014): _Interned: Torrens Island 1914–1915_ , Wakefield Press, ISBN 9781743053386 p. 8
  112. **^** "Adelaide | Creative Cities Network". _en.unesco.org_. Retrieved  4 September 2016. 
  113. **^** "Adelaide Language Festival 2014".  
  114. **^** "Adelaide Language Festival, 2017".  
  115. **^** "Digital television reception in Craigmore/Hillbank" (PDF). Australian Government. Archived from the original (PDF) on 5 May 2013. Retrieved 29 April 2013. 
  116. **^** "mySwitch".  
  117. **^** "Australian sport owes much to little old Adelaide".  
  118. **^** Rugby League Project – Adelaide Oval
  119. **^** "adelaideadrenaline.com.au". _Adelaide Adrenaline 2014_.  
  120. **^** "worldbowls2012.com". _Independent Insurance_.  
  121. **^** Owen, Michael (7 June 2007). "800 beds, helipad and train station: Our 'Marj' hospital". _The Advertiser_. p.  5. 
  122. **^** "Frequently Asked Questions – General".  
  123. **^** " 'News: New $1.7 billion hospital spearheads health reform'". Ministers.sa.gov.au. 6 June 2007. Archived from the original on 15 August 2009. Retrieved 7 September 2010. 
  124. **^** http://www.adelaidenow.com.au/city-loop-in-tram-proposal/story-e6frea6u-1226032608322
  125. **^** "Master Plan – Adelaide Airport" (PDF). adelaideairport.com.au. Archived from the original (PDF) on 19 February 2011. 
  126. **^** "Metro Malcontent – The Twenty Minute City No More" (PDF). _Royal Automobile Association, South Australia_. 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 January 2009. Retrieved 28 December 2008.  (1.18MB)
  127. **^** "Adelaide Airport reaches 8 million passengers in 2016" (PDF). Adelaide Airport Ltd. media release. 16 January 2017. Retrieved 23 April 2017. 
  128. **^** P.A. Howell. "Biography – Sir Charles Willoughby Moke Norrie". _Australian Dictionary of Biography_. Retrieved  16 June 2012. 
  129. **^** Shock Labor "betrayal" allows SA Govt to effectively privatise power utility _7.30 Report_ , ABC, 3 June 1999. Archived copy. Retrieved 20 September 2017.
  130. **^** "South Australia".  
  131. **^** "Power crisis 'as bad as California '". 
  132. **^** "Privatisation 'will cost state billions '". 
  133. **^** Sid Maher; Michael Owen (16 June 2011). "Renewables blowout as wind, solar hit harder than tax". _The Australian_. Retrieved  16 June 2011. 
  134. **^** Peddie, Claire (21 March 2012). "South Australia's power prices set to become highest in the world says Energy Users Association of Australia". _AdelaideNow_. Retrieved  16 June 2012. 
  135. **^** "Industry structure". _Department for Transport, Energy and Infrastructure_. Archived from the original on 24 June 2005. Retrieved  5 May 2006. 
  136. **^** "Supply Security". _Department for Transport, Energy and Infrastructure_. Archived from the original on 24 June 2005. Retrieved  5 May 2006. 
  137. **^** _Wind Energy in South Australia_, Government of South Australia, archived from the original on 18 October 2012 , retrieved 16 June 2011 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Kathryn Gargett; Susan Marsden, _Adelaide: A Brief History_. Adelaide: State History Centre, History Trust of South Australia in association with Adelaide City Council, 1996 ISBN 978-0-7308-0116-0.
  * Susan Marsden; Paul Stark; Patricia Sumerling, eds., _Heritage of the City of Adelaide: an illustrated guide_. Adelaide: Adelaide City Council, 1990, 1996. ISBN 978-0-909866-30-3.
  * Derek Whitelock et al. _Adelaide: a sense of difference_. Melbourne: Arcadia, 2000. ISBN 978-0-87560-657-6.

##  External links[edit]

Find more about **Adelaide** at Wikipedia's sister projects

  * Definitions from Wiktionary
  * Media from Wikimedia Commons
  * News from Wikinews
  * Quotations from Wikiquote
  * Texts from Wikisource
  * Textbooks from Wikibooks
  * Travel guide from Wikivoyage
  * Learning resources from Wikiversity

  * Adelaide City Council > Official City Guide
  * Adelaide City Council

  * v
  * t
  * e

Adelaide landmarks  
  
---  
Buildings / structures |

  * Adelaide Convention Centre
  * Adelaide Desalination Plant
  * Adelaide Town Hall
  * Ayers House
  * Beehive Corner
  * Bonython Hall
  * Brighton Town Hall
  * Carrick Hill
  * Government House
  * Grenfell Centre
  * Myer Centre
  * National War Memorial
  * National Wine Centre of Australia
  * Old Government House
  * Parliament House
  * Pilgrim Uniting Church
  * South African War Memorial
  * State Library of South Australia
  * Torrens Building
  * The Heights Observatory
  * Regal Theatre
  * St Francis Xavier's Cathedral
  * St Peter's Cathedral
  * Westpac House

  
  
Precincts |

  * Chinatown
  * Rundle Mall
  * Victoria Square

  
  
Cultural institutions |

  * ACE Open
  * Adelaide Gaol
  * Art Gallery of South Australia
  * Migration Museum
  * Museum of Classical Archaeology
  * National Railway Museum
  * South Australian Aviation Museum
  * South Australian Museum
  * Tandanya National Aboriginal Cultural Institute

  
  
Sport |

  * Adelaide Aquatic Centre
  * Adelaide International Raceway
  * Adelaide Motorsport Park
  * Adelaide Oval
  * Adelaide Street Circuit
  * Adelaide Super-Drome
  * City Sk8 Park
  * Diamond Sports Stadium
  * Football Park
  * Gillman Speedway
  * Greyhound Park
  * Hindmarsh Stadium (Coopers Stadium)
  * IceArenA
  * Kensington Oval
  * Kooyonga Golf Club
  * Memorial Drive Park
  * Morphettville Racecourse
  * Priceline Stadium
  * Royal Adelaide Golf Club
  * Santos Stadium
  * Sidewinders Speedway
  * South Australia Aquatic and Leisure Centre
  * State Hockey Centre
  * Titanium Security Arena

  
  
Entertainment |

  * Adelaide Casino
  * Adelaide Central Market
  * Adelaide Entertainment Centre
  * Adelaide Festival Centre
  * Adelaide Showground
  * Adelaide Zoo
  * The Beachouse
  * Thebarton Theatre

  
  
Beaches and islands |

  * Aldinga Beach
  * Brighton
  * Christies Beach
  * Glenelg
  * Henley Beach
  * Maslin Beach
  * Moana
  * North Haven
  * Seacliff
  * Semaphore
  * West Beach

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Professional sports teams based in Adelaide  
  
---  
Australian rules football |

AFL

    Adelaide
    Port Adelaide
AFLW

    Adelaide  
  
Baseball |

ABL

    Adelaide Bite
Claxton Shield

    South Australia  
  
Basketball |

NBL

    Adelaide 36ers

WNBL

    Adelaide Lightning  
  
Cricket |

Sheffield Shield / 50 overs

    Southern Redbacks
20 overs

    Adelaide Strikers

WNCL

    South Australian Scorpions

Women's Big Bash League

    Adelaide Strikers  
  
Field hockey |

AHL (men)

    Southern Hotshots

AHL (women)

    Southern Suns  
  
Ice hockey |

AIHL

    Adelaide Adrenaline

AWIHL

    Adelaide Rush  
  
Netball |

Suncorp Super Netball

    Adelaide Thunderbirds  
  
Soccer |

A-League

    Adelaide United FC

W-League

    Adelaide United WFC  
  
Water polo |

ANWPL

    Adelaide Jets  
  
_Main Article:Sport in South Australia_  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

South Australia  
  
---  
Topics |

  * History
  * Government
  * Flag
  * Culture
  * Transport
  * Rail transport
  * Education
  * Geography
  * Geology
  * South Australian English
  * Sport
  * Country Fire Service

|  
  
Regions |

  * Adelaide Hills
  * Barossa Valley
  * Clare Valley
  * Eyre Peninsula
  * Far North
  * Fleurieu Peninsula
  * Flinders Ranges
  * Limestone Coast
  * Mid North
  * Murraylands
  * Nullarbor Plain
  * Riverland
  * Yorke Peninsula

  
  
Cities and towns |

  * Adelaide
  * Mount Gambier
  * Murray Bridge
  * Port Augusta
  * Port Lincoln
  * Port Pirie
  * Victor Harbor
  * Whyalla

  
  
South Australia portal  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Capital cities of Australia  
  
---  
  
|

**National** and **ACT**  
Canberra

|

**NSW**  
Sydney

|

**NT**  
Darwin

|

**QLD**  
Brisbane

|

**SA**  
Adelaide

|

**TAS**  
Hobart

|

**VIC**  
Melbourne

|

**WA**  
Perth  
  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
List of cities in Australia  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Cities of Australia  
  
---  
Australian Capital Territory |

**Canberra** _(national capital)_  
  
New South Wales |

  * Albury
  * Armidale
  * Bathurst
  * Broken Hill
  * Cessnock
  * Coffs Harbour
  * Dubbo
  * Gosford
  * Goulburn
  * Grafton
  * Griffith
  * Lake Macquarie
  * Lismore
  * Lithgow
  * Maitland
  * Newcastle
  * Orange
  * Queanbeyan
  * **Sydney**
  * Tamworth
  * Wagga Wagga
  * Wollongong

  
  
Northern Territory |

  * **Darwin**
  * Palmerston

  
  
Queensland |

  * **Brisbane**
  * Bundaberg
  * Cairns
  * Caboolture
  * Caloundra
  * Gladstone
  * Gold Coast
  * Gympie
  * Hervey Bay
  * Ipswich
  * Mackay
  * Maryborough
  * Mount Isa
  * Rockhampton
  * Sunshine Coast
  * Toowoomba
  * Townsville

  
  
South Australia |

  * **Adelaide**
  * Mount Gambier
  * Murray Bridge
  * Port Augusta
  * Port Lincoln
  * Port Pirie
  * Victor Harbor
  * Whyalla

  
  
Tasmania |

  * Burnie
  * Devonport
  * **Hobart**
  * Launceston

  
  
Victoria |

  * Ararat
  * Bairnsdale
  * Ballarat
  * Benalla
  * Bendigo
  * Geelong
  * Hamilton
  * Horsham
  * **Melbourne**
  * Mildura
  * Sale
  * Shepparton
  * Traralgon
  * Wangaratta
  * Warrnambool
  * Wodonga

  
  
Western Australia |

  * Albany
  * Bunbury
  * Busselton
  * Geraldton
  * Kalgoorlie-Boulder
  * Mandurah
  * **Perth**

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 261897860
  * LCCN: n80037938
  * GND: 4079623-1
  * BNF: cb119515622 (data)
  * NKC: ge494220

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Adelaide&oldid=816950125"

Categories:

  * Adelaide
  * 1836 establishments in Australia
  * Australian capital cities
  * Cities in South Australia
  * Coastal cities in Australia
  * Planned capitals
  * Populated places established in 1836
  * 1836 establishments in Oceania
  * Metropolitan areas of Australia

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from June 2016
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from January 2011
  * Use Australian English from November 2011
  * All Wikipedia articles written in Australian English
  * Use dmy dates from March 2017
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Articles with hAudio microformats
  * Articles including recorded pronunciations (English)
  * All accuracy disputes
  * Articles with disputed statements from October 2015
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2015
  * Articles with unsourced statements from January 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2016
  * Pages using weather box with unknown parameters
  * All articles lacking reliable references
  * Articles lacking reliable references from February 2014
  * Articles with unsourced statements from October 2014
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2011
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2014
  * Articles with unsourced statements from June 2011
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikivoyage

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * አማርኛ
  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * भोजपुरी
  * Български
  * Brezhoneg
  * Català
  * Чӑвашла
  * Cebuano
  * Čeština
  * Corsu
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Føroyskt
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Gàidhlig
  * Galego
  * ગુજરાતી
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Interlingue
  * Ирон
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Монгол
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Dorerin Naoero
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Нохчийн
  * Nordfriisk
  * Norfuk / Pitkern
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Occitan
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * Piemontèis
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Runa Simi
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * Gagana Samoa
  * संस्कृतम्
  * Scots
  * Seeltersk
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Ślůnski
  * Soomaaliga
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Taqbaylit
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Тоҷикӣ
  * Türkçe
  * Twi
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Vepsän kel’
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Volapük
  * Winaray
  * 吴语
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 24 December 2017, at 22:51.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

