

# Al-Qaeda

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

This article is about the militant group. For the Iraqi newspaper, see Al-
Qaidah (newspaper).

Al-Qaeda  
---  
القاعدة  
Participant in the Global War on Terrorism, War in Afghanistan, War in North-
West Pakistan, Somali Civil War, Insurgency in the Maghreb, Iraq War, Iraqi
insurgency, al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen, Syrian Civil War, Arab Spring, and
other conflicts  
  
Flag used by various al-Qaeda factions  
Active | 1988–present  
Ideology | Wahhabism  
Salafist jihadism[1][2]  
Qutbism[3]  
Pan-Islamism[4][5]  
Anti-Communism[6]  
Anti-Zionism[7][8]  
Antisemitism[7][8][9][10][11]  
Groups |

Al-Qaeda Central (1988–present)  
Al-Qaeda in Iraq (2004–2013, became Mujahideen Shura Council in January 2006)  
Mujahideen Shura Council (January 2006–October 2006, became Islamic State of
Iraq in October 2006)  
Islamic State of Iraq (2006–2013)  
Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (2007–present)  
Al-Qaeda in Palestine (2008–present)  
Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (2009–present)  
Al-Qaeda in Somalia (2010–present)  
Al-Qaeda in the Levant (2012–17, became Tahrir al-Sham in January 2017)  
Tahrir al-Sham (2017–present)  
Al-Mourabitoun (2013–2015, joined AQIM in December 2015)  
Jund al-Aqsa (2014–17)  
Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (2014–present)  
Khorasan Group  
Al-Qaeda in Sinai Peninsula  
Imam Shamil Battalion  
Al-Qaeda Kurdish Battalions  
Al Qaeda in the Lands Beyond the Sahel Al-Qaeda in Bosnia and Herzegovina  
Al-Qaeda in Mali  
Al-Qaeda in Spain  

Al-Qaeda in the Malay Archipelago  
Leaders | Osama bin Laden  **†** (1988–2011)  
Ayman al-Zawahiri (2011–present)  
Area of operations |

Worldwide  
Predominantly in the Middle East  
Rebel group with current territorial control in:

  * Somalia[12]
  * Syria[13]
  * Yemen[14]

  
Size |

  * In the Af-Pak region: 300–3,000[15][16][17]
  * In the Maghreb: 800–1,000+[18][19]
  * In West Africa: 100+[20][21]
  * In the Arabian Peninsula: 4,000–12,000[22][17][23]
  * In Mali: 4,000
  * In India: 300–3,000[24]
  * In Somalia: 7,000–9,000[25]
  * In Syria: ca.31,000[26]
  * In the Sinai Peninsula: 7,000–9,000[27][28]
  * Total: 73,600–92,100+

  
  
Allies |

**State allies:**

  *  Qatar (alleged)[29]
  *  Saudi Arabia (alleged, denied)[30]

**Non-state allies:**

  * Taliban
  * Tehrik-i-Taliban Pakistan
  * Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan
  * Turkistan Islamic Party
  * Lashkar-e-Taiba
  * Caucasus Emirate
  * Haqqani network
  * Jaish-e-Mohammed
  * Jemaah Islamiyah
  * Egyptian Islamic Jihad

  
Opponents |

**State opponents**

  * NATO
    * ISAF
  *  United States
  *  Russia
  *  China

**Non-State opponents**

  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
  * Hezbollah
  * Hamas
  * Houthis
  * Southern Movement

  
Battles and wars |

War on Terror  
In Afghanistan

  * Afghan Civil War (1996–2001)
  * War in Afghanistan (2001–present)

In Tajikistan

  * Civil war in Tajikistan

In Chechnya

  * Second Chechen War

In Yemen

  * al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen
  * Yemeni Civil War (2015–present)

In the Maghreb

  * Maghreb insurgency
  * Northern Mali conflict

In Iraq

  * Iraq War
  * Iraqi insurgency

In Pakistan

  * War in North-West Pakistan
  * Balochistan conflict

In Somalia

  * War in Somalia (2006–09)
  * War in Somalia (2009–present)

In Syria

  * Syrian Civil War
  * Military intervention against ISIL
  * American-led intervention in Syria

In Egypt

  * Sinai insurgency
  * Egyptian crisis (2011–14)

  
  
**Al-Qaeda** (/ ælˈkaɪdə/ or /ˌælkɑːˈiːdə/; Arabic: القاعدة‎ _al-qāʿidah_ ,
Arabic: [ælqɑːʕɪdɐ], translation: "The Base", "The Foundation" or "The
Fundament" and alternatively spelled **al-Qaida** , **al-Qæda** and sometimes
**al-Qa'ida** ) is a militant Sunni Islamist multi-national organization
founded in 1988[31] by Osama bin Laden, Abdullah Azzam,[32] and several other
Arab volunteers who fought against the Soviet invasion of Afghanistan in the
1980s.[6]

Al-Qaeda operates as a network made up of Islamic extremist, Salafist
jihadists. It has been designated as a terrorist group by the United Nations
Security Council, the North Atlantic Treaty Organization (NATO), the European
Union, the United States, Russia, India, and various other countries (see
below). Al-Qaeda has mounted attacks on civilian and military targets in
various countries, including the 1998 U.S. embassy bombings, the September 11
attacks, and the 2002 Bali bombings. The U.S. government responded to the
September 11 attacks by launching the "War on Terror". With the loss of key
leaders, culminating in the death of Osama bin Laden, al-Qaeda's operations
have devolved from actions that were controlled from the top down, to actions
by associated groups and _lone-wolf_ operators. Characteristic techniques
employed by al-Qaeda include suicide attacks and the simultaneous bombing of
different targets.[33] Activities ascribed to it may involve members of the
movement who have made a pledge of loyalty to bin Laden, or the much more
numerous "al-Qaeda-linked" individuals who have undergone training in one of
its camps in Afghanistan, Pakistan, Iraq or Sudan.[34] Al-Qaeda ideologues
envision a complete break from all foreign influences in Muslim countries, and
the creation of a new caliphate ruling over the entire Muslim
world.[4][35][36]

Among the beliefs ascribed to al-Qaeda members is the conviction that a
Christian–Jewish alliance is conspiring to destroy Islam.[37] As Salafist
jihadists, they believe that the killing of non-combatants is religiously
sanctioned, but they ignore any aspect of religious scripture which might be
interpreted as forbidding the murder of non-combatants and internecine
fighting.[1][38] Al-Qaeda also opposes what it regards as man-made laws, and
it wants to replace them with a strict form of sharia law.[39]

Al-Qaeda has carried out many attacks on targets it considers _kafir_.[40] Al-
Qaeda is also responsible for instigating sectarian violence among
Muslims.[41] Al-Qaeda's leaders regard liberal Muslims, Shias, Sufis and other
sects as heretical and its members and sympathizers have attacked their
mosques and gatherings.[42] Examples of sectarian attacks include the Yazidi
community bombings, the Sadr City bombings, the Ashoura massacre and the April
2007 Baghdad bombings.[43]

Since the death of bin Laden in 2011, the group has been led by the Egyptian
Ayman al-Zawahiri.

## Contents

  * 1 Organization
    * 1.1 Leadership
      * 1.1.1 Osama bin Laden (1987 – May 2011)
      * 1.1.2 after May 2011
    * 1.2 Command structure
    * 1.3 Field operatives
    * 1.4 Insurgent forces
    * 1.5 Financing
      * 1.5.1 Allegations of Qatari support
  * 2 Strategy
  * 3 Name
  * 4 Ideology
  * 5 Religious compatibility
  * 6 History
    * 6.1 Jihad in Afghanistan
    * 6.2 Expanding operations
    * 6.3 Gulf War and the start of US enmity
    * 6.4 Sudan
    * 6.5 Refuge in Afghanistan
    * 6.6 Call for global Salafi jihadism
    * 6.7 Fatwas
    * 6.8 Iraq
    * 6.9 Somalia and Yemen
    * 6.10 United States operations
    * 6.11 Death of Osama bin Laden
    * 6.12 Syria
    * 6.13 India
  * 7 Attacks
    * 7.1 1992
    * 7.2 Late 1990s
    * 7.3 September 11 attacks
  * 8 Designation as a terrorist group
  * 9 War on Terror
  * 10 Activities
    * 10.1 Africa
    * 10.2 Europe
    * 10.3 Arab world
    * 10.4 Kashmir
    * 10.5 Internet
      * 10.5.1 Online communications
    * 10.6 Aviation network
    * 10.7 Involvement in military conflicts
  * 11 Alleged CIA involvement
  * 12 Broader influence
  * 13 Criticism
  * 14 See also
  * 15 References
  * 16 Further reading
  * 17 External links

## Organization

Al-Qaeda's philosophy has been described as "centralization of decision and
decentralization of execution."[44] It is thought that al-Qaeda's leadership,
after the War on Terror, has "become geographically isolated," leading to the
"emergence of decentralized leadership" of regionalized al-Qaeda
groups.[45][46]

Many terrorism experts do not believe that the global jihadist movement is
driven at every level by al-Qaeda's leadership. Although bin Laden still held
considerable ideological sway over some Muslim extremists before his death,
experts argue that al-Qaeda has fragmented over the years into a variety of
regional movements that have little connection with one another. Marc Sageman,
a psychiatrist and former Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) officer, said that
al-Qaeda is now just a "loose label for a movement that seems to target the
west. There is no umbrella organisation. We like to create a mythical entity
called [al-Qaeda] in our minds, but that is not the reality we are dealing
with."[47]

This view mirrors the account given by Osama bin Laden in his October 2001
interview with Tayseer Allouni:

> ... this matter isn't about any specific person and... is not about the al-
Qa'idah Organization. We are the children of an Islamic Nation, with Prophet
Muhammad as its leader, our Lord is one... and all the true believers
[mu'mineen] are brothers. So the situation isn't like the West portrays it,
that there is an 'organization' with a specific name (such as 'al-Qa'idah')
and so on. That particular name is very old. It was born without any intention
from us. Brother Abu Ubaida... created a military base to train the young men
to fight against the vicious, arrogant, brutal, terrorizing Soviet empire...
So this place was called 'The Base' ['Al-Qa'idah'], as in a training base, so
this name grew and became. We aren't separated from this nation. We are the
children of a nation, and we are an inseparable part of it, and from those
public *** which spread from the far east, from the Philippines, to Indonesia,
to Malaysia, to India, to Pakistan, reaching Mauritania... and so we discuss
the conscience of this nation.[48]

Bruce Hoffman, however, sees al-Qaeda as a cohesive network that is strongly
led from the Pakistani tribal areas.[47]

Al-Qaeda militant in Sahel, 2012

Al-Qaeda has the following direct affiliates:

  * Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb
  * Al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI)
  * Al Qaeda in Yemen
  * Al-Qaeda in Somalia
  * Al Qaeda in the Lands Beyond the Sahel
  * Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
  * Al-Qaeda in Syria
  * Al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent
  * Al-Qaeda in Lebanon
  * Al-Qaeda in the Malay Archipelago
  * Al-Qaeda in Kurdistan[49]
  * Al-Qaeda in West Africa[50]
  * Al-Qaeda in Bosnia and Herzegovina[51]
  * Al-Qaeda in Gaza
  * Al Qaeda in Spain
  * Al-Qaeda in Sinai Peninsula
  * Al-Qaeda in Mali
  * Al-Qaeda in Caucasus and Russia

Al-Qaeda's indirect affiliates includes the following, some of which have left
the organization and joined the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant:

  * Ansar Dine
  * Abu Sayyaf (pledged allegiance to ISIL[52])
  * Ansar al-Islam (merged with ISIL on August 29, 2014)
  * Turkistan Islamic Party
  * Caucasus Emirate
  * Fatah al-Islam
  * Islamic Jihad Union
  * Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan
  * Jaish-e-Mohammed
  * Jemaah Islamiyah
  * Lashkar-e-Taiba
  * Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa
  * Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group
  * Rajah Sulaiman movement

### Leadership

Al-Zawahiri and Bin Laden in 2001 interview with Hamid Mir in Kabul

#### Osama bin Laden (1987 – May 2011)

Osama bin Laden was the most historically notable emir, or commander, and
Senior Operations Chief of al-Qaeda prior to his assassination on May 1, 2011,
by U.S. forces. Atiyah Abd al-Rahman was alleged to be second in command prior
to his death on August 22, 2011.[53]

Bin Laden was advised by a Shura Council, which consists of senior al-Qaeda
members, estimated by Western officials to consist of 20–30 people. One of
them is thought to have been Sayed Tayib al-Madani.

#### after May 2011

Ayman al-Zawahiri, al-Qaeda's Deputy Operations Chief prior to bin Laden's
death, assumed the role of commander, according to an announcement by al-Qaeda
on June 16, 2011. He replaced Saif al-Adel, who had served as interim
commander.[54]

On June 5, 2012, Pakistan intelligence officials announced that al-Rahman's
alleged successor Abu Yahya al-Libi had been killed in Pakistan.[55]

Nasir al-Wuhayshi was said to have become second in command in 2013. He was
the leader of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP), until he was killed in
a U.S. airstrike in June 2015.[56]

Al-Qaeda's network was built from scratch as a conspiratorial network that
draws on leaders of all its regional nodes "as and when necessary to serve as
an integral part of its high command."[57]

  * The Military Committee is responsible for training operatives, acquiring weapons, and planning attacks.
  * The Money/Business Committee funds the recruitment and training of operatives through the _hawala_ banking system. U.S-led efforts to eradicate the sources of terrorist financing[58] were most successful in the year immediately following the September 11 attacks.[59] Al-Qaeda continues to operate through unregulated banks, such as the 1,000 or so _hawaladars_ in Pakistan, some of which can handle deals of up to $10  million.[60] It also provides air tickets and false passports, pays al-Qaeda members, and oversees profit-driven businesses.[61] In the _9/11 Commission Report_ , it was estimated that al-Qaeda required $30 million-per-year to conduct its operations.
  * The Law Committee reviews Sharia law, and decides whether particular courses of action conform to it.
  * The Islamic Study/ _Fatwah_ Committee issues religious edicts, such as an edict in 1998 telling Muslims to kill Americans.
  * In the late 1990s, there was a publicly known Media Committee, which ran the now-defunct newspaper _Nashrat al Akhbar (Newscast)_ and handled public relations.
  * In 2005, al-Qaeda formed As-Sahab, a media production house, to supply its video and audio materials.

### Command structure

Al-Qaeda is not operationally managed by Ayman al-Zawahiri. Operational groups
consult with the leadership in situations where attacks are in preparation
(The Wilson Centre 2015). [62]

When asked about the possibility of al-Qaeda's connection to the July 7, 2005
London bombings in 2005, Metropolitan Police Commissioner Sir Ian Blair said:
"Al-Qaeda is not an organization. Al-Qaeda is a way of working... but this has
the hallmark of that approach... al-Qaeda clearly has the ability to provide
training... to provide expertise... and I think that is what has occurred
here."[63]

On August 13, 2005, however, _The Independent_ newspaper, quoting police and
MI5 investigations, reported that the July 7 bombers had acted independently
of an al-Qaeda terror mastermind someplace abroad.[64]

What exactly al-Qaeda is, or was, remains in dispute. Certainly, it has been
obliged to evolve and adapt in the aftermath of 9/11 and the launch of the
'war on terror'.

Nasser al-Bahri, who was Osama bin Laden's bodyguard for four years in the
run-up to 9/11 gives a highly detailed description of how the group functioned
at that time in his memoir.[65] He describes its formal administrative
structure and vast arsenal, as well as day-to-day life as a member.

However, author and journalist Adam Curtis argues that the idea of al-Qaeda as
a formal organization is primarily an American invention. Curtis contends the
name "al-Qaeda" was first brought to the attention of the public in the 2001
trial of bin Laden and the four men accused of the 1998 US embassy bombings in
East Africa:

> The reality was that bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri had become the focus of
a loose association of disillusioned Islamist militants who were attracted by
the new strategy. But there was no organization. These were militants who
mostly planned their own operations and looked to bin Laden for funding and
assistance. He was not their commander. There is also no evidence that bin
Laden used the term "al-Qaeda" to refer to the name of a group until after
September 11 attacks, when he realized that this was the term the Americans
had given it.[66]

As a matter of law, the US Department of Justice needed to show that bin Laden
was the leader of a criminal organization in order to charge him _in absentia_
under the Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act, also known as
the RICO statutes. The name of the organization and details of its structure
were provided in the testimony of Jamal al-Fadl, who said he was a founding
member of the group and a former employee of bin Laden.[67] Questions about
the reliability of al-Fadl's testimony have been raised by a number of sources
because of his history of dishonesty, and because he was delivering it as part
of a plea bargain agreement after being convicted of conspiring to attack U.S.
military establishments.[68][69] Sam Schmidt, one of his defense lawyers,
said:

> There were selective portions of al-Fadl's testimony that I believe was
false, to help support the picture that he helped the Americans join together.
I think he lied in a number of specific testimony about a unified image of
what this organization was. It made al-Qaeda the new Mafia or the new
Communists. It made them identifiable as a group and therefore made it easier
to prosecute any person associated with al-Qaeda for any acts or statements
made by bin Laden.[66]

### Field operatives

Pakistani journalist Hamid Mir interviewing al-Qaeda leader Osama bin Laden in
Afghanistan, in 1997

The number of individuals in the group who have undergone proper military
training, and are capable of commanding insurgent forces, is largely unknown.
Documents captured in the raid on bin Laden compound in 2011, show that the
core al-Qaeda membership in 2002 was 170.[70] In 2006, it was estimated that
al-Qaeda had several thousand commanders embedded in 40 different
countries.[71] As of 2009[update], it was believed that no more than 200–300
members were still active commanders.[72]

According to the award-winning 2004 BBC documentary _The Power of Nightmares_
, al-Qaeda was so weakly linked together that it was hard to say it existed
apart from bin Laden and a small clique of close associates. The lack of any
significant numbers of convicted al-Qaeda members, despite a large number of
arrests on terrorism charges, was cited by the documentary as a reason to
doubt whether a widespread entity that met the description of al-Qaeda
existed.[73]

### Insurgent forces

According to author Robert Cassidy, al-Qaeda controls two separate forces
deployed alongside insurgents in Iraq and Pakistan. The first, numbering in
the tens of thousands, was "organized, trained, and equipped as insurgent
combat forces" in the Soviet-Afghan war.[71] It was made up primarily of
foreign _mujahideen_ from Saudi Arabia and Yemen. Many went on to fight in
Bosnia and Somalia for global _jihad_. Another group, approximately 10,000
strong, live in Western states and have received rudimentary combat
training.[71]

Other analysts have described al-Qaeda's rank and file as being "predominantly
Arab," in its first years of operation, and now also includes "other peoples"
as of 2007[update].[74] It has been estimated that 62% of al-Qaeda members
have university education.[75]

### Financing

|

This section's **tone or style may not reflect theencyclopedic tone used on
Wikipedia**.  See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for
suggestions. _(June 2016)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
Some financing for al-Qaeda in the 1990s came from the personal wealth of
Osama bin Laden.[76] Other sources of income in 2001 included the heroin trade
and donations from supporters in Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and other Islamic Gulf
states.[76] A WikiLeaks released memo from the United States Secretary of
State sent in 2009 asserted that the primary source of funding of Sunni
terrorist groups worldwide was Saudi Arabia.[77]

Among the first pieces of evidence of Saudi Arabia’s conspicuous support for
al-Qaeda was the so-called "Golden Chain", a list of early al-Qaeda funders
seized during a 2002 raid at the premises of the Benevolence International
Foundation (BIF) in Sarajevo by Bosnian police.[78] The hand-written list,
validated by al-Qaeda defector Jamal al-Fadl, included the names of both
donors and beneficiaries.[78][79] Osama bin-Laden’s name appeared seven times
among the beneficiaries, while 20 Saudi and Gulf-based businessmen and
politicians were listed among the donors.[78] Besides Osama bin Laden, among
the most notable Saudi recipients were Adel Batterjee (founder of BIF and
designated as a terror financier by the U.S. Department of the Treasury in
2004) and Wael Hamza Julaidan (U.S.-terrorist designated in 2002 as one of al-
Qaeda’s founder).[78]

The most prominent Saudi figures among the donors included Saudi billionaire
Saleh Kamel (CEO of Dallah Al-Baraka, accused of funding and supporting al-
Qaeda operations), Sulaiman Abdul Aziz Al Rajhi (funder of SAAR Foundation,
shut down within the framework of Operation Green Quest, and CEO of al-Rajhi
Bank, investigated several times by U.S. authorities for its role in financing
terrorism and al-Qaeda especially), and Ahmad Turki Yamani (son of former
Saudi chief of Justice and former Saudi Minister of Petroleum).[78][80] Saleh
Kamel’s case in particular reinforces Saudi Arabia’s role as sponsor of al-
Qaeda. For years, Omar al-Bayoumi, an associate of Khalid Almihdhar and Nawaf
Alhazmi, two 9/11 highjackers, received a stipend from al-Baraka, the
financial group kamel directed.[78] Kamel invested for several years in a
Sudanese bank that held accounts under the names of senior al-Qaeda
affiliates.[78][81] According to the _Wall Street Journal_ , the Jidda-based
al-Baraka Bank, one of the biggest subsidiaries of the financial group, was
also suspected of providing banking services to al-Qaeda operatives.[80] In
general, the documents seized during the 2002 Bosnia raid pointed out that al-
Qaeda widely exploited charities to channel financial and material support to
its operatives across the globe.[82] This was the case, for instance, with the
International Islamic Relief Organization (IIRO) and the Muslim World League
(MWL). The former had solid ties with al-Qaeda associates worldwide, including
al-Qaeda’s deputy Ayman al Zawahiri’s brother working for IIRO in Albania who
had actively recruited on behalf of al-Qaeda and involved several Egyptian
Islamic Jihad members in IIRO activities.[83] The latter was openly identified
by al-Qaeda’s leader as one of the three charities al-Qaeda primarily relied
upon for funding sources.[83]

#### Allegations of Qatari support

See also: Qatar and state-sponsored terrorism and 2017 Qatar diplomatic crisis

Qatar has provided financial support to al-Qaeda as well.[ _citation needed_ ]
On December 18, 2013, the U.S. Treasury designated Abd Al-Rahman al-Nuaimi, a
Qatari citizen close to the al-Thani family and a human rights activist who
founded the Swiss-based NGO Alkarama, as a global terrorist for his activities
in support to al-Qaeda.[84] The U.S. Treasury has stated that Nuaimi,
currently enjoying impunity in Qatar, "has facilitated significant financial
support to al-Qa'ida in Iraq, and served as an interlocutor between al-Qa'ida
in Iraq leaders and Qatar-based donors".[84]

Nuaimi was also accused of overseeing a $2 million monthly transfer to al-
Qaeda in Iraq for a period of time as part of his role as mediator between
Iraq-based al-Qaeda senior officers and Qatari citizens.[84][85] He also
allegedly entertained relationships with Abu-Khalid al-Suri, al-Qaeda’s top
envoy in Syria, who processed a $600,000 transfer to al-Qaeda in 2013.[84][85]
Moreover, Nuaimi is known to be associated with Abd al-Wahhab Muhammad 'Abd
al-Rahman al-Humayqani, a Yemeni politician and founding member of Alkarama
listed as a Specially Designated Global Terrorist (SDGT) by the U.S. Treasury
in 2013.[86] The U.S. authorities claimed that Humayqani exploited his role in
Alkarama to fundraise on behalf of al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
(AQAP).[84][86] A prominent figure among AQAP ranks, he was also reported to
have facilitated the flow of funding to AQAP affiliates based in Yemen. Nuaimi
was accused of investing funds in the charity directed by Humayqani to
ultimately fund AQAP.[84] About ten months after being sanctioned by the U.S.
Treasury, Nuaimi was also restrained from doing business in the UK.[87]

Another Qatari citizen, Kalifa Mohammed Turki Subayi, was sanctioned by the
U.S. Treasury on June 5, 2008, for his activities as a "Gulf-based al-Qaeda
financier". Subayi’s name was added to the UN Security Council’s Sanctions
List in 2008 upon charges of providing financial and material support to al-
Qaeda senior leadership.[85][88] Subayi allegedly moved al-Qaeda recruits to
South Asia-based training camps.[85][88] He also supported financially Khalid
Sheikh Mohammed, a Pakistani national and senior al-Qaeda officer who is
believed to be the mastermind behind the September 11 attack according to the
9/11 Commission Report.[89] Besides the activities of key facilitators,
Qatar’s financial support to al-Qaeda has been channeled through Qatar’s
largest NGO, the Qatar Charitable Society currently known as Qatar Charity.
Al-Qaeda defector al-Fadl, who was also a former member of Qatar Charity,
testified in court that Abdullah Mohammed Yusef, who served as Qatar Charity’s
director, was affiliated to al-Qaeda and simultaneously to the National
Islamic Front, a political group that gave al-Qaeda leader Osama Bin Laden
harbor in Sudan in the early 1990s.[79]

Legal proceedings from the trial "United States vs. Enaam M. Arnaout" also
mentioned that Qatar Charity was cited by Bin Laden in 1993 as one of the
charities used to channel financial support to al-Qaeda operatives
overseas.[90] The same documents also report Bin Laden’s complaint that the
failed assassination attempt of Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak had
compromised the ability of al-Qaeda to exploit charities to support its
operatives to the extent it was capable of it before 1995.[90] Qatar Charity’s
track record of terror financing includes support to members of al-Qaeda in
Chechnya, an accusation publicly denied by Hamad bin Nasser al-Thani. In 1999
Qatar Charity supposedly funneled money to Chechnya-based al-Qaeda
affiliates.[91] Furthermore, Qatar Charity is among the NGOs allegedly
channelling funds to Ansar Dine in North Mali, a piece of information
confirmed by French military intelligence reports dating back to France’s
intervention in the country in early 2013.[91][92] The group has long been
suspected of having ties to al-Qaeda.[ _citation needed_ ]

Today, Qatar’s enduring financing of al-Qaeda’s enterprises mostly benefits
al-Qaeda’s affiliate in Syria Jabhat al-Nusra and is channeled primarily
through kidnapping for ransom.[93] The Consortium Against Terrorist Finance
(CATF) reported that the Gulf country has thus funded al-Nusra since 2013.[93]
Al-Awsat estimated that Qatar disbursed $25 million in support of al-Nusra
through kidnapping for ransom.[94] In addition to this strategy, Qatar has
also launched fundraising campaigns on behalf of al-Nusra. The _Washington
Post_ reporter Joby Warrick wrote in December 2013 that al-Nusra acknowledged
a Qatar-sponsored campaign ("Madid [sic] Ahl al-Sham") "as one of the
preferred conduits for donations intended for the group".[95][96]

##  Strategy

|

This section needs to be **updated**.  Please update this article to reflect
recent events or newly available information. _(August 2016)_  
  
---|---  
  
On March 11, 2005, _Al-Quds Al-Arabi_ published extracts from Saif al-Adel's
document "Al Qaeda's Strategy to the Year 2020".[97][98] Abdel Bari Atwan
summarizes this strategy as comprising five stages to rid the Ummah from all
forms of oppression:

  1. Provoke the United States and the West into invading a Muslim country by staging a massive attack or string of attacks on US soil that results in massive civilian casualties.
  2. Incite local resistance to occupying forces.
  3. Expand the conflict to neighboring countries, and engage the US and its allies in a long war of attrition.
  4. Convert al-Qaeda into an ideology and set of operating principles that can be loosely franchised in other countries without requiring direct command and control, and via these franchises incite attacks against the US and countries allied with the US until they withdraw from the conflict, as happened with the 2004 Madrid train bombings, but which did not have the same effect with the July 7, 2005 London bombings.
  5. The US economy will finally collapse by the year 2020, under the strain of multiple engagements in numerous places, making the worldwide economic system, which is dependent on the US, also collapse, leading to global political instability, which in turn leads to a global jihad led by al-Qaeda, and a Wahhabi Caliphate will then be installed across the world, following the collapse of the US and the rest of the Western world countries.

Atwan also noted, regarding the collapse of the US, "If this sounds far-
fetched, it is sobering to consider that this virtually describes the downfall
of the Soviet Union."[97]

According to Fouad Hussein, a Jordanian journalist and author who has spent
time in prison with Al-Zarqawi, Al Qaeda's strategy plan consists of seven
phases and is similar to the plan described in Al Qaeda's Strategy to the year
2020:[99]

  1. "The Awakening." This phase was supposed to last from 2001 to 2003. The goal of the phase is to provoke the United States to attack a Muslim country by executing an attack on US soil that kills many civilians.
  2. "Opening Eyes." This phase was supposed to last from 2003 to 2006. The goal of this phase was to recruit young men to the cause and to transform the al-Qaeda group into a movement. Iraq was supposed to become the center of all operations with financial and military support for bases in other states.
  3. "Arising and Standing up", was supposed to last from 2007 to 2010. In this phase, al-Qaeda wanted to execute additional attacks and focus their attention on Syria. Hussein believed that other countries in the Arabian Peninsula were also in danger.
  4. Al-Qaeda expected a steady growth among their ranks and territories due to the declining power of the regimes in the Arabian Peninsula. The main focus of attack in this phase was supposed to be on oil suppliers and Cyberterrorism, targeting the US economy and military infrastructure.
  5. The declaration of an Islamic Caliphate, which was projected between 2013 and 2016. In this phase, al-Qaeda expected the resistance from Israel to be heavily reduced.
  6. The declaration of an "Islamic Army" and a "fight between believers and non-believers", also called "total confrontation".
  7. "Definitive Victory", projected to be completed by 2020. The world will be "beaten down" by the Islamic Army.

According to the seven-phase strategy, the war isn't projected to last longer
than two years.

According to Charles Lister of the Middle East Institute and Katherine
Zimmerman of the American Enterprise Institute, the new model of al-Qaeda is
to "socialise communities" and build a broad territorial base of operations
with the support of local communities, also gaining income independent of the
funding of sheiks.[100]

## Name

The English name of the organization is a simplified transliteration of the
Arabic noun _al-qāʿidah_ (‏القاعدة ‎), which means "the foundation" or "the
base". The initial _al-_ is the Arabic definite article "the", hence "the
base".[101]

In Arabic, _al-Qaeda_ has four syllables ( /alˈqaː.ʕi.da/). However, since two
of the Arabic consonants in the name (the voiceless uvular plosive [q] and the
voiced pharyngeal fricative [ʕ]) are not phones found in the English language,
the common naturalized English pronunciations include /ælˈkaɪdə/, /ælˈkeɪdə/
and /ˌælkɑːˈiːdə/. Al-Qaeda's name can also be transliterated as _al-Qaida_ ,
_al-Qa'ida_ , or _el-Qaida_.[102]

Bin Laden explained the origin of the term in a videotaped interview with Al
Jazeera journalist Tayseer Alouni in October 2001:

> The name 'al-Qaeda' was established a long time ago by mere chance. The late
Abu Ebeida El-Banashiri established the training camps for our _mujahedeen_
against Russia's terrorism. We used to call the training camp al-Qaeda. The
name stayed.[103]

It has been argued that two documents seized from the Sarajevo office of the
Benevolence International Foundation prove that the name was not simply
adopted by the _mujahid_ movement and that a group called al-Qaeda was
established in August 1988. Both of these documents contain minutes of
meetings held to establish a new military group, and contain the term "al-
Qaeda".[104]

Former British Foreign Secretary Robin Cook wrote that the word al-Qaeda
should be translated as "the database", and originally referred to the
computer file of the thousands of _mujahideen_ militants who were recruited
and trained with CIA help to defeat the Russians.[105] In April 2002, the
group assumed the name _Qa'idat al-Jihad_ ( قاعدة الجهاد _qāʿidat al-jihād_ ),
which means "the base of Jihad". According to Diaa Rashwan, this was
"apparently as a result of the merger of the overseas branch of Egypt's al-
Jihad (Egyptian Islamist Jihad, or EIJ) group, led by Ayman al-Zawahiri, with
the groups Bin Laden brought under his control after his return to Afghanistan
in the mid-1990s."[106]

## Ideology

See also: Qutbism

Part of a series on:  
Islamism  
---  
  
Fundamentals

  * Islam
  * History
  * Culture
  * Economics
  * Politics
  * Secularism

  
  
Ideology

  * Islamism
  * Qutbism
  * Salafism
  * Shia Islamism  

Islamic fundamentalism  
  
Concepts

  * Caliphate
  * Islamic democracy
  * Islamic socialism
  * Islamic state
    * Islamic monarchy
    * Islamic republic
  * Islamization (of knowledge)
  * Jihad
  * Pan-Islamism
  * Post-Islamism
  * Sharia
  * _Shura_
  * Slavery
  * Two-nation theory
  * Ummah

  
  
Influences

  * Anti-imperialism
  * Anti-Zionism
  * Islamic Golden Age
  * Islamic revival

  
  
Movements

**Scholastic**

  * Ahl-i Hadith
  * Deobandi
  * Madkhalism
  * Sahwa movement
  * Wahhabism

**Political**

  * Hizb ut-Tahrir
  * Iranian Revolution
  * Jamaat-e-Islami
  * Millî Görüş
  * Muslim Brotherhood
  * List of Islamic political parties

**Militia**

  * Militant Islamism based in 
    * MENA region
    * South Asia
    * Southeast Asia
    * Sub-Saharan Africa

  
  
Key texts

  * _Reconstruction of Religious Thought in Islam_  
(Iqbal 1930s)

  * _Principles of State and Government_  
(Asad 1961)

  * _Ma'alim fi al-Tariq_ ("Milestones")  
(Qutb 1965)

  * __Islamic Government:  
Governance of the Jurist_ ("Velayat-e faqih")_  
(Khomeini 1970)

  
  
Heads of state

  * Ali Khamenei
  * Omar al-Bashir
  * Muammar Gaddafi
  * Ruhollah Khomeini
  * Mohamed Morsi
  * Mohammad Omar
  * House of Saud
  * House of Thani
  * Zia-ul-Haq

  
  
Key ideologues

  * Muhammad Abduh
  * Jamāl al-Dīn al-Afghānī
  * Qazi Hussain Ahmad
  * Muhammad Nasiruddin al-Albani
  * Muhammad Asad
  * Hassan al-Banna
  * Necmettin Erbakan
  * Rached Ghannouchi
  * Safwat Hegazi
  * Muhammad Iqbal
  * Ali Khamenei
  * Ruhollah Khomeini
  * Abul A'la Maududi
  * Taqi al-Din al-Nabhani
  * Yusuf al-Qaradawi
  * Sayyid Qutb
  * Tariq Ramadan
  * Ata Abu Rashta
  * Rashid Rida
  * Navvab Safavi
  * Ali Shariati
  * Haji Shariatullah
  * Hassan Al-Turabi
  * Ahmed Yassin

  
  
Related topics

  * Criticism of Islamism
  * Islam and other religions
  * Islamophobia
  * Reform movements
  * Modernity (Modernism)

  
  
Islam portal

Politics portal  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
The radical Islamist movement in general and al-Qaeda in particular developed
during the Islamic revival and the rise of the Islamist movement during the
last three decades of the 20th century, along with less extreme movements.

Some have argued that "without the writings" of Islamic author and thinker
Sayyid Qutb, "al-Qaeda would not have existed."[107] In the 1950s-60s, Qutb
preached that because of the lack of _sharia_ law, the Muslim world was no
longer Muslim, having reverted to pre-Islamic ignorance known as _jahiliyyah_.
To restore Islam, he said that a vanguard movement of righteous Muslims was
needed in order to establish "true Islamic states", implement _sharia_ , and
rid the Muslim world of any non-Muslim influences, such as concepts like
socialism and nationalism. In Qutb's view, the enemies of Islam included
"treacherous Orientalists"[108] and "world Jewry," who plotted "conspiracies"
and "wicked[ly]" opposed Islam.

In the words of Mohammed Jamal Khalifa, a close college friend of bin Laden:

> Islam is different from any other religion; it's a way of life. We [Khalifa
and bin Laden] were trying to understand what Islam has to say about how we
eat, who we marry, how we talk. We read Sayyid Qutb. He was the one who most
affected our generation.[109]

Qutb had an even greater influence on bin Laden's mentor and another leading
member of al-Qaeda,[110] Ayman al-Zawahiri. Zawahiri's uncle and maternal
family patriarch, Mafouz Azzam, was Qutb's student, then protégé, then
personal lawyer, and finally executor of his estate – one of the last people
to see Qutb before his execution. "Young Ayman al-Zawahiri heard again and
again from his beloved uncle Mahfouz about the purity of Qutb's character and
the torment he had endured in prison."[111] Zawahiri paid homage to Qutb in
his work _Knights under the Prophet's Banner._[112]

One of the most powerful of Qutb's ideas was his belief that many who said
they were Muslims were really not. Rather, they were apostates. That not only
gave jihadists "a legal loophole around the prohibition of killing another
Muslim," but made "it a religious obligation to execute" these self-professed
Muslims. These alleged apostates included leaders of Muslim countries, since
they failed to enforce _sharia_ law.[113]

The Afghan jihad against the pro-Soviet government (December 1979 to February
1989) developed the Salafist Jihadist movement of which Al-Qaeda was the most
prominent example.[114]

## Religious compatibility

Abdel Bari Atwan writes that:

> While the leadership's own theological platform is essentially Salafi, the
organization's umbrella is sufficiently wide to encompass various schools of
thought and political leanings. Al-Qaeda counts among its members and
supporters people associated with Wahhabism, Shafi'ism, Malikism, and
Hanafism. There are even some Al-Qaeda members whose beliefs and practices are
directly at odds with Salafism, such as Yunis Khalis, one of the leaders of
the Afghan mujahedin. He was a mystic who visited the tombs of saints and
sought their blessings – practices inimical to bin Laden's Wahhabi-Salafi
school of thought. The only exception to this pan-Islamic policy is Shi'ism.
Al-Qaeda seems implacably opposed to it, as it holds Shi'ism to be heresy. In
Iraq it has openly declared war on the Badr Brigades, who have fully
cooperated with the US, and now considers even Shi'i civilians to be
legitimate targets for acts of violence.[115]

## History

|

This section **contains information of unclear or questionableimportance or
relevance to the article's subject matter**.  Please help improve this section
by clarifying or removing superfluous information. If importance cannot be
established, the section is likely to be moved to another article, pseudo-
redirected, or removed.  
_Find sources:_  "Al-Qaeda" – news  **·** newspapers  **·** books  **·**
scholar  **·** JSTOR _(May 2011)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
_The Guardian_ has described five distinct phases in the development of al-
Qaeda: beginnings in the late 1980s, a "wilderness" period in 1990–96, its
"heyday" in 1996–2001, a network period from 2001 to 2005, and a period of
fragmentation from 2005 to today.[116]

###  Jihad in Afghanistan

Main articles: Soviet–Afghan War and Jihadism

CIA-funded and ISI-trained Afghan mujahideen fighters crossing the Durand Line
border to fight Soviet forces and the Soviet-backed Afghan government in 1985.

The origins of al-Qaeda as a network inspiring terrorism around the world and
training operatives can be traced to the Soviet War in Afghanistan (December
1979 – February 1989).[6] The US viewed the conflict in Afghanistan, with the
Afghan Marxists and allied Soviet troops on one side and the native Afghan
_mujahideen_ , some of whom were radical Islamic militants, on the other, as a
blatant case of Soviet expansionism and aggression.

A CIA program called Operation Cyclone channeled funds through Pakistan's
Inter-Services Intelligence agency to the Afghan Mujahideen who were fighting
the Soviet occupation.[117] US government financial support for the Afghan
Islamic militants was substantial. Aid to Gulbuddin Hekmatyar, an Afghan
_mujahideen_ leader and founder and leader of the Hezb-e Islami radical
Islamic militant faction, alone amounted "by the most conservative estimates"
to $600 million. In addition to receiving hundreds of millions of dollars in
American aid, Hekmatyar was the recipient of the lion's share of Saudi
aid.[118] (Later, in the early 1990s, after the US had withdrawn support,
Hekmatyar "worked closely" with bin Laden.[119] )

At the same time, a growing number of Arab _mujahideen_ joined the _jihad_
against the Afghan Marxist regime, facilitated by international Muslim
organizations, particularly the Maktab al-Khidamat (MAK),[120] which was
funded by the Saudi Arabia government as well as by individual Muslims
(particularly Saudi businessmen who were approached by bin Laden). Together,
these sources donated some $600  million a year to jihad.[121][ _page
needed_] In 1984, MAK, or the "Services Office", was established in Peshawar,
Pakistan, by bin Laden and Abdullah Yusuf Azzam, a Palestinian Islamic scholar
and member of the Muslim Brotherhood. MAK organized guest houses in Peshawar,
near the Afghan border, and gathered supplies for the construction of
paramilitary training camps to prepare foreign recruits for the Afghan war
front. Bin Laden became a "major financier" of the _mujahideen_ , spending his
own money and using his connections with "the Saudi royal family and the
petro-billionaires of the Gulf" to influence public opinion about the war and
raise additional funds.[122]

Omar Abdel-Rahman

From 1986, MAK began to set up a network of recruiting offices in the US, the
hub of which was the Al Kifah Refugee Center at the Farouq Mosque on
Brooklyn's Atlantic Avenue. Among notable figures at the Brooklyn center were
"double agent" Ali Mohamed, whom FBI special agent Jack Cloonan called "bin
Laden's first trainer",[123] and "Blind Sheikh" Omar Abdel-Rahman, a leading
recruiter of _mujahideen_ for Afghanistan. Al-Qaeda evolved from MAK. Azzam
and bin Laden began to establish camps in Afghanistan in 1987.[124]

MAK and foreign _mujahideen_ volunteers, or "Afghan Arabs," did not play a
major role in the war. While over 250,000 Afghan _mujahideen_ fought the
Soviets and the communist Afghan government, it is estimated that were never
more than 2,000 foreign _mujahideen_ in the field at any one time.[125]
Nonetheless, foreign _mujahideen_ volunteers came from 43 countries, and the
total number that participated in the Afghan movement between 1982 and 1992 is
reported to have been 35,000.[126] Bin Laden played a central role in
organizing training camps for the foreign Muslim volunteers.[127][128]

The Soviet Union finally withdrew from Afghanistan in 1989. To the surprise of
many, Mohammad Najibullah's Communist Afghan government hung on for three more
years, before being overrun by elements of the _mujahideen_. With _mujahideen_
leaders unable to agree on a structure for governance, chaos ensued, with
constantly reorganizing alliances fighting for control of ill-defined
territories, leaving the country devastated.

###  Expanding operations

Toward the end of the Soviet military mission in Afghanistan, some foreign
_mujahideen_ wanted to expand their operations to include Islamist struggles
in other parts of the world, such as Palestine and Kashmir. A number of
overlapping and interrelated organizations were formed, to further those
aspirations. One of these was the organization that would eventually be called
al-Qaeda.

Wright's research suggests that al-Qaeda was formed at an August 11, 1988,
meeting between "several senior leaders" of Egyptian Islamic Jihad, Abdullah
Azzam, and bin Laden, where it was agreed to join bin Laden's money with the
expertise of the Islamic Jihad organization and take up the jihadist cause
elsewhere after the Soviets withdrew from Afghanistan.[129]

Notes of a meeting of bin Laden and others on August 20, 1988, indicate al-
Qaeda was a formal group by that time: "basically an organized Islamic
faction, its goal is to lift the word of God, to make His religion
victorious." A list of requirements for membership itemized the following:
listening ability, good manners, obedience, and making a pledge ( _bayat_ ) to
follow one's superiors.[130] In his memoir, bin Laden's former bodyguard,
Nasser al-Bahri, gives the only publicly available description of the ritual
of giving _bayat_ when he swore his allegiance to the al-Qaeda chief.[131]
According to Wright, the group's real name wasn't used in public
pronouncements because "its existence was still a closely held secret."[132]

After Azzam was assassinated in 1989, the MAK split, with a significant number
joining bin Laden's organization.[ _citation needed_ ]

In November 1989, Ali Mohamed, a former special forces sergeant stationed at
Fort Bragg, North Carolina, left military service and moved to California. He
traveled to Afghanistan and Pakistan and became "deeply involved with bin
Laden's plans."[133] In 1991, Ali Mohammed is said to have helped orchestrate
bin Laden's relocation to Sudan.[134]

### Gulf War and the start of US enmity

Main article: Gulf War

Following the Soviet Union's withdrawal from Afghanistan in February 1989, bin
Laden returned to Saudi Arabia. The Iraqi invasion of Kuwait in August 1990
had put the Kingdom and its ruling House of Saud at risk. The world's most
valuable oil fields were within easy striking distance of Iraqi forces in
Kuwait, and Saddam's call to pan-Arab/Islamism could potentially rally
internal dissent.

In the face of a seemingly massive Iraqi military presence, Saudi Arabia's own
forces were well armed but far outnumbered. Bin Laden offered the services of
his _mujahideen_ to King Fahd to protect Saudi Arabia from the Iraqi army. The
Saudi monarch refused bin Laden's offer, opting instead to allow US and allied
forces to deploy troops into Saudi territory.[135]

The deployment angered bin Laden, as he believed the presence of foreign
troops in the "land of the two mosques" (Mecca and Medina) profaned sacred
soil. After speaking publicly against the Saudi government for harboring
American troops, he was banished and forced to live in exile in Sudan.

### Sudan

From around 1992 to 1996, al-Qaeda and bin Laden based themselves in Sudan at
the invitation of Islamist theoretician Hassan al-Turabi. The move followed an
Islamist coup d'état in Sudan, led by Colonel Omar al-Bashir, who professed a
commitment to reordering Muslim political values. During this time, bin Laden
assisted the Sudanese government, bought or set up various business
enterprises, and established camps where insurgents trained.

A key turning point for bin Laden, further pitting him against the Sauds,
occurred in 1993 when Saudi Arabia gave support for the Oslo Accords, which
set a path for peace between Israel and Palestinians.[136]

Zawahiri and the EIJ, who served as the core of al-Qaeda but also engaged in
separate operations against the Egyptian government, had bad luck in Sudan. In
1993, a young schoolgirl was killed in an unsuccessful EIJ attempt on the life
of the Egyptian prime minister, Atef Sedki. Egyptian public opinion turned
against Islamist bombings, and the police arrested 280 of al-Jihad's members
and executed 6.[137]

Due to bin Laden's continuous verbal assault on King Fahd of Saudi Arabia, on
March 5, 1994, Fahd sent an emissary to Sudan demanding bin Laden's passport;
bin Laden's Saudi citizenship was also revoked. His family was persuaded to
cut off his stipend, $7 million a year, and his Saudi assets were
frozen.[138][139] His family publicly disowned him. There is controversy over
whether and to what extent he continued to garner support from members of his
family and/or the Saudi government.[140]

In June 1995, an even more ill-fated attempt to assassinate Egyptian president
Mubarak led to the expulsion of EIJ, and in May 1996, an expulsion of bin
Laden, by the Sudanese government occurred as well.

According to Pakistani-American businessman Mansoor Ijaz, the Sudanese
government offered the Clinton Administration numerous opportunities to arrest
bin Laden. Ijaz's claims appeared in numerous op-ed pieces, including one in
the _Los Angeles Times_[141] and one in _The Washington Post_ co-written with
former Ambassador to Sudan Timothy M. Carney.[142] Similar allegations have
been made by _Vanity Fair_ contributing editor David Rose,[143] and Richard
Miniter, author of _Losing bin Laden_ , in a November 2003 interview with
_World_.[144]

Several sources dispute Ijaz's claim, including the National Commission on
Terrorist Attacks on the US (the 9/11 Commission), which concluded in part:

> Sudan's minister of defense, Fatih Erwa, has claimed that Sudan offered to
hand Bin Ladin over to the US. The Commission has found no credible evidence
that this was so. Ambassador Carney had instructions only to push the Sudanese
to expel Bin Ladin. Ambassador Carney had no legal basis to ask for more from
the Sudanese since, at the time, there was no indictment out-standing.[145]

### Refuge in Afghanistan

Main articles: Taliban's rise to power and Afghan training camp

After the fall of the Afghan communist regime in 1992, Afghanistan was
effectively ungoverned for four years and plagued by constant infighting
between various _mujahideen_ groups.

The origins of the Taliban (literally "students") lay in the children of
Afghanistan, many of them orphaned by the war, and many of whom had been
educated in the rapidly expanding network of Islamic schools (madrassas)
either in Kandahar or in the refugee camps on the Afghan-Pakistani border.

According to Ahmed Rashid, five leaders of the Taliban were graduates of Darul
Uloom Haqqania, a madrassa in the small town of Akora Khattak.[146] The town
is situated near Peshawar in Pakistan, but largely attended by Afghan
refugees.[146] This institution reflected Salafi beliefs in its teachings, and
much of its funding came from private donations from wealthy Arabs. Bin
Laden's contacts were still laundering most of these donations, using
"unscrupulous" Islamic banks to transfer the money to an "array" of charities
which serve as front groups for al-Qaeda, or transporting cash-filled
suitcases straight into Pakistan.[147] Another four of the Taliban's leaders
attended a similarly funded and influenced madrassa in Kandahar.

Many of the _mujahideen_ who later joined the Taliban fought alongside Afghan
warlord Mohammad Nabi Mohammadi's Harkat i Inqilabi group at the time of the
Russian invasion. This group also enjoyed the loyalty of most Afghan Arab
fighters.

The continuing internecine strife between various factions, and accompanying
lawlessness following the Soviet withdrawal, enabled the growing and well-
disciplined Taliban to expand their control over territory in Afghanistan, and
it came to establish an enclave which it called the Islamic Emirate of
Afghanistan. In 1994, it captured the regional center of Kandahar, and after
making rapid territorial gains thereafter, conquered the capital city Kabul in
September 1996.

After the Sudanese made it clear, in May 1996, that bin Laden would never be
welcome to return,[ _clarification needed_ ] Taliban-controlled Afghanistan –
with previously established connections between the groups, administered with
a shared militancy,[148] and largely isolated from American political
influence and military power – provided a perfect location for al-Qaeda to
relocate its headquarters. Al-Qaeda enjoyed the Taliban's protection and a
measure of legitimacy as part of their Ministry of Defense,[ _citation needed_
] although only Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab Emirates
recognized the Taliban as the legitimate government of Afghanistan.

While in Afghanistan, the Taliban government tasked al-Qaeda with the training
of Brigade 055, an elite part of the Taliban's army from 1997–2001. The
Brigade was made up of mostly foreign fighters, many veterans from the Soviet
Invasion, and all under the same basic ideology of the mujahideen. In November
2001, as Operation Enduring Freedom had toppled the Taliban government, many
Brigade 055 fighters were captured or killed, and those that survived were
thought to head into Pakistan along with bin Laden.[149]

By the end of 2008, some sources reported that the Taliban had severed any
remaining ties with al-Qaeda,[150] while others cast doubt on this.[151]
According to senior US military intelligence officials, there were fewer than
100 members of al-Qaeda remaining in Afghanistan in 2009.[152]

### Call for global Salafi jihadism

|

**This section needs expansion**.  You can help by adding to it. _(September
2009)_  
  
---|---  
  
Around 1994, the Salafi groups waging Salafi jihadism in Bosnia entered into a
seemingly irreversible decline. As they grew less and less aggressive, groups
such as EIJ began to drift away from the Salafi cause in Europe. Al-Qaeda
stepped in and assumed control of around 80% of the terrorist cells in Bosnia
in late 1995.

At the same time, al-Qaeda ideologues instructed the network's recruiters to
look for _Jihadi international_ Muslims who believed that extremist- _jihad_
must be fought on a global level. The concept of a "global Salafi _jihad_ "
had been around since at least the early 1980s. Several groups had formed for
the explicit purpose of driving non-Muslims out of every Muslim land at the
same time and with maximum carnage. This was, however, a fundamentally
defensive strategy.[ _clarification needed_ ]

Al-Qaeda sought to open the "offensive phase" of the global Salafi
_jihad_.[153] Bosnian Islamists in 2006 called for "solidarity with Islamic
causes around the world", supporting the insurgents in Kashmir and Iraq as
well as the groups fighting for a Palestinian state.[154]

###  Fatwas

In 1996, al-Qaeda announced its _jihad_ to expel foreign troops and interests
from what they considered Islamic lands. Bin Laden issued a _fatwa_ (binding
religious edict),[155] which amounted to a public declaration of war against
the US and its allies, and began to refocus al-Qaeda's resources on large-
scale, propagandist strikes.

On February 23, 1998, bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri, a leader of Egyptian
Islamic Jihad, along with three other Islamist leaders, co-signed and issued a
_fatwa_ calling on Muslims to kill Americans and their allies where they can,
when they can.[156] Under the banner of the World Islamic Front for Combat
Against the Jews and Crusaders, they declared:

> [T]he ruling to kill the Americans and their allies – civilians and military
– is an individual duty for every Muslim who can do it in any country in which
it is possible to do it, in order to liberate the al-Aqsa Mosque [in
Jerusalem] and the holy mosque [in Mecca] from their grip, and in order for
their armies to move out of all the lands of Islam, defeated and unable to
threaten any Muslim. This is in accordance with the words of Almighty Allah,
'and fight the pagans all together as they fight you all together,' and 'fight
them until there is no more tumult or oppression, and there prevail justice
and faith in Allah'.[157]

Neither bin Laden nor al-Zawahiri possessed the traditional Islamic scholarly
qualifications to issue a _fatwa_. However, they rejected the authority of the
contemporary _ulema_ (which they saw as the paid servants of _jahiliyya_
rulers), and took it upon themselves.[158] [ _unreliable source?_ ]

### Iraq

Main article: Al-Qaeda in Iraq

Al-Qaeda is Sunni, and often attacked the Iraqi Shia majority in an attempt to
incite sectarian violence and greater chaos in the country.[159] Al-Zarqawi
purportedly declared an all-out war on Shiites[160] while claiming
responsibility for Shiite mosque bombings.[161] The same month, a statement
claiming to be by AQI rejected as "fake" a letter allegedly written by al-
Zawahiri, in which he appears to question the insurgents' tactic of
indiscriminately attacking Shiites in Iraq.[162] In a December 2007 video, al-
Zawahiri defended the Islamic State in Iraq, but distanced himself from the
attacks against civilians committed by "hypocrites and traitors existing among
the ranks".[163]

US and Iraqi officials accused AQI of trying to slide Iraq into a full-scale
civil war between Iraq's majority Shiites and minority Sunni Arabs, with an
orchestrated campaign of civilian massacres and a number of provocative
attacks against high-profile religious targets.[164] With attacks such as the
2003 Imam Ali Mosque bombing, the 2004 Day of Ashura and Karbala and Najaf
bombings, the 2006 first al-Askari Mosque bombing in Samarra, the deadly
single-day series of bombings in which at least 215 people were killed in
Baghdad's Shiite district of Sadr City, and the second al-Askari bombing in
2007, they provoked Shiite militias to unleash a wave of retaliatory attacks,
resulting in death squad-style killings and spiraling further sectarian
violence which escalated in 2006 and brought Iraq to the brink of violent
anarchy in 2007.[165] In 2008, sectarian bombings blamed on al-Qaeda in Iraq
killed at least 42 people at the Imam Husayn Shrine in Karbala in March, and
at least 51 people at a bus stop in Baghdad in June.

In February 2014, after a prolonged dispute with al-Qaeda in Iraq's successor
organisation, the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS), al-Qaeda
publicly announced it was cutting all ties with the group, reportedly for its
brutality and "notorious intractability".[166]

### Somalia and Yemen

Main articles: Al-Shabaab (militant group) and al-Qaeda in the Arabian
Peninsula

Current military situation in Somalia:  

  Controlled by Al-Shabaab and Allies

Current military situation in Yemen:  

  Controlled by al-Qaeda and Ansar al-Sharia

In Somalia, al-Qaeda agents had been collaborating closely with its Somali
wing, which was created from the al-Shabaab group. In February 2012, al-
Shabaab officially joined al-Qaeda, declaring loyalty in a joint video.[167]
The Somalian al-Qaeda actively recruit children for suicide-bomber training,
and export young people to participate in military actions against Americans
at the AfPak border.[168]

The percentage of terrorist attacks in the West originating from the
Afghanistan-Pakistan (AfPak) border declined considerably from almost 100% to
75% in 2007, and to 50% in 2010, as al-Qaeda shifted to Somalia and
Yemen.[169] While al-Qaeda leaders are hiding in the tribal areas along the
AfPak border, the middle-tier of the movement display heightened activity in
Somalia and Yemen. "We know that South Asia is no longer their primary base,"
a US defense agency source said. "They are looking for a hide-out in other
parts of the world, and continue to expand their organization."

In January 2009, al-Qaeda's division in Saudi Arabia merged with its Yemeni
wing to form al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.[170] Centered in Yemen, the
group takes advantage of the country's poor economy, demography and domestic
security. In August 2009, they made the first assassination attempt against a
member of the Saudi royal dynasty in decades. President Obama asked his Yemen
counterpart Ali Abdullah Saleh to ensure closer cooperation with the US in the
struggle against the growing activity of al-Qaeda in Yemen, and promised to
send additional aid. Because of the wars in Iraq and Afghanistan, the US was
unable to pay sufficient attention to Somalia and Yemen, which could cause
problems in the near future.[171] In December 2011, US Secretary of Defense
Leon Panetta said that the US operations against al-Qaeda "are now
concentrating on key groups in Yemen, Somalia and North Africa."[172] Al-Qaeda
in the Arabian Peninsula claimed responsibility for the 2009 bombing attack on
Northwest Airlines Flight 253 by Umar Farouk Abdulmutallab.[173] The group
released photos of Abdulmutallab smiling in a white shirt and white Islamic
skullcap, with the al-Qaeda in Arabian Peninsula banner in the background. The
AQAP declared the Al-Qaeda Emirate in Yemen in March 31, 2011, after capturing
the most of the Abyan Governorate.[174]

As the Saudi-led military intervention in Yemen escalated in July 2015, _The
Guardian_ wrote: "As another 50 civilians die in the forgotten war, only Isis
and al-Qaida are gaining from a conflict tearing Yemen apart and leaving 20
million people in need of aid."[175] In February 2016, al-Qaeda forces and
Saudi Arabian-led coalition forces were both seen fighting Houthi rebels in
the same battle.[176]

###  United States operations

Anwar al-Awlaki

In December 1998, the Director of the CIA Counterterrorism Center reported to
the president that al-Qaeda was preparing for attacks in the USA, including
the training of personnel to hijack aircraft.[177] On September 11, 2001, al-
Qaeda attacked the United States, hijacking four airliners within the country
and deliberately crashing two into the twin towers of the World Trade Center
in New York City, and the third into the western side of the Pentagon in
Arlington County, Virginia. The fourth, however, failed to reach its intended
target – either the United States Capitol or the White House, both located in
Washington, D.C. – due to the rebellion by the passengers to retake the
airliner, and instead crashed into the field in Shanksville,
Pennsylvania.[178] In total, the attackers killed 2,977 victims and injured
more than 6,000 others.[179]

U.S. officials called Anwar al-Awlaki an "example of al-Qaeda reach into" the
U.S. in 2008 after probes into his ties to the September 11 attacks hijackers.
A former FBI agent identifies Awlaki as a known "senior recruiter for al-
Qaeda", and a spiritual motivator.[180] Awlaki's sermons in the U.S. were
attended by three of the 9/11 hijackers, as well as accused Fort Hood shooter
Nidal Malik Hasan. U.S. intelligence intercepted emails from Hasan to Awlaki
between December 2008 and early 2009. On his website, Awlaki has praised
Hasan's actions in the Fort Hood shooting.[181]

An unnamed official claimed there was good reason to believe Awlaki "has been
involved in very serious terrorist activities since leaving the U.S. [in
2002], including plotting attacks against America and our allies."[182]

U.S. President Barack Obama approved the targeted killing of al-Awlaki by
April 2010, making al-Awlaki the first US citizen ever placed on the CIA
target list. That required the consent of the U.S. National Security Council,
and officials said it was appropriate for an individual who posed an imminent
danger to national security.[183][184][185] In May 2010, Faisal Shahzad, who
pleaded guilty to the 2010 Times Square car bombing attempt, told
interrogators he was "inspired by" al-Awlaki, and sources said Shahzad had
made contact with al-Awlaki over the internet.[186][187][188] Representative
Jane Harman called him "terrorist number one", and _Investor's Business Daily_
called him "the world's most dangerous man".[189][190] In July 2010, the US
Treasury Department added him to its list of Specially Designated Global
Terrorists, and the UN added him to its list of individuals associated with
al-Qaeda.[191] In August 2010, al-Awlaki's father initiated a lawsuit against
the U.S. government with the American Civil Liberties Union, challenging its
order to kill al-Awlaki.[192] In October 2010, U.S. and U.K. officials linked
al-Awlaki to the 2010 cargo plane bomb plot.[193] In September 2011, he was
killed in a targeted killing drone attack in Yemen.[194] It was reported on
March 16, 2012, that Osama bin Laden plotted to kill United States President
Barack Obama.[195]

###  Death of Osama bin Laden

Main article: Death of Osama bin Laden

View of Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad, Pakistan, where he was
killed on May 1, 2011.

On May 1, 2011, in Washington, D.C. (May 2, Pakistan Standard Time), U.S.
President Barack Obama announced that Osama bin Laden had been killed by "a
small team of Americans" acting under Obama's direct orders, in a covert
operation in Abbottabad, Pakistan,[196][197] about 50 km (31 mi) north of
Islamabad.[198] According to U.S. officials a team of 20–25 US Navy SEALs
under the command of the Joint Special Operations Command and working with the
CIA stormed bin Laden's compound in two helicopters. Bin Laden and those with
him were killed during a firefight in which U.S. forces experienced no
casualties.[199] According to one US official the attack was carried out
without the knowledge or consent of the Pakistani authorities.[200] In
Pakistan some people were reported to be shocked at the unauthorized incursion
by US armed forces.[201] The site is a few miles from the Pakistan Military
Academy in Kakul.[202] In his broadcast announcement President Obama said that
U.S. forces "took care to avoid civilian casualties."[203] Details soon
emerged that three men and a woman were killed along with bin Laden, the woman
being killed when she was "used as a shield by a male combatant".[200] DNA
from bin Laden's body, compared with DNA samples on record from his dead
sister,[204] confirmed bin Laden's identity.[205] The body was recovered by
the US military and was in its custody[197] until, according to one US
official, his body was buried at sea according to Islamic
traditions.[198][206] One U.S. official stated that "finding a country willing
to accept the remains of the world's most wanted terrorist would have been
difficult."[207] U.S State Department issued a "Worldwide caution" for
Americans following bin Laden's death and U.S Diplomatic facilities everywhere
were placed on high alert, a senior U.S official said.[208] Crowds gathered
outside the White House and in New York City's Times Square to celebrate bin
Laden's death.[209]

### Syria

Main article: Syrian Civil War

See also: Al-Nusra Front, Tahrir al-Sham, and Islamic State of Iraq and the
Levant

Military situation in the Syrian Civil War as of
000000002017-11-24-0000November 24, 2017.  

  Controlled by al-Nusra Front

The scene of an October 2012 Aleppo bombings, for which al-Nusra Front claimed
responsibility.[210]

In 2003, President Bashar al-Assad revealed in an interview with a Kuwaiti
newspaper that he doubted that al-Qaeda even existed. He was quoted as saying,
"Is there really an entity called al-Qaeda? Was it in Afghanistan? Does it
exist now?" He went on further to remark about bin Laden commenting, he
"cannot talk on the phone or use the Internet, but he can direct
communications to the four corners of the world? This is illogical."[211]

Following the mass protests that took place later in 2011 demanding the
resignation of al-Assad, al-Qaeda affiliated groups and Sunni sympathizers
soon began to constitute the most effective fighting force in the Syrian
opposition.[212] Until then, al-Qaeda's presence in Syria was not worth
mentioning, but its growth thereafter was rapid.[213] Groups such as the al-
Nusra Front and the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIS; sometimes
ISIL) have recruited many foreign Mujahideen to train and fight in what has
gradually become a highly sectarian war.[214][215] Ideologically, the Syrian
Civil War has served the interests of al-Qaeda as it pits a mainly Sunni
opposition against a Shia backed government. Viewing Shia Islam as heretical,
al-Qaeda and other fundamentalist Sunni militant groups have invested heavily
in the civil conflict, actively backing and supporting the Syrian Opposition
despite its clashes with moderate opposition groups such as the Free Syrian
Army (FSA).[216][217]

On February 2, 2014, al-Qaeda distanced itself from ISIS and its actions in
Syria,[218] but ISIS and the al-Qaeda-linked al-Nusra Front[219] are still
able to occasionally cooperate with each other when they fight against the
Syrian government.[220][221][222] The Saudi/Turkish-backed[223] al-Nusra
launched many attacks and bombings, mostly against targets affiliated with or
supportive of the Syrian government.[224] In October 2015, Russian air strikes
targeted positions held by al-Nusra Front.[225][226] In early 2016, a leading
ISIL ideologue described al-Qaeda as the "Jews of jihad".[227]

### India

Main article: al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent

In September 2014 al-Zawahiri announced al-Qaeda was establishing a front in
India to "wage jihad against its enemies, to liberate its land, to restore its
sovereignty, and to revive its Caliphate." He nominated India as a beachhead
for regional jihad taking in neighboring countries such as Myanmar and
Bangladesh. The motivation for the video was questioned in some quarters where
it was seen the militant group was struggling to remain relevant in light of
the emerging prominence of ISIS.[228] Reaction amongst Muslims in India to the
formation of the new wing, to be known as "Qaedat al-Jihad fi'shibhi al-qarrat
al-Hindiya" or al-Qaida in the Indian Subcontinent [AQIS], was one of fury.
Leaders of several Indian Muslim organizations rejected al-Zawahiri's
pronouncement, saying they could see no good coming from it, and viewed it as
a threat to Muslim youth in the country.[229]

US intelligence analyst accused the Pakistan military of 'stage-managing' the
terror outfit's latest advance into India. Bruce Riedel, a former CIA analyst
and National Security Council official for South Asia, also said that Pakistan
should be warned that it will be placed on the list of State Sponsors of
Terrorism. Riedel also said that "Zawahiri made the tape in his hideout in
Pakistan, no doubt, and many Indians suspect the ISI (Inter Services
Intelligence) is helping to protect him," he wrote.[230][231][232]

## Attacks

Main article: Timeline of al-Qaeda attacks

Map of major attacks attributed to al-Qaeda:  
1\. The Pentagon, US – September 11, 2001  
2\. World Trade Center, US – September 11, 2001  
3\. Istanbul, Turkey – November 15, 2003; November 20, 2003  
4\. Aden, Yemen – October 12, 2000  
5\. Nairobi, Kenya – August 7, 1998  
6\. Dar es Salaam, Tanzania – August 7, 1998

al-Qaeda around the world.

Al-Qaeda has carried out a total of six major terrorist attacks, four of them
in its jihad against America. In each case the leadership planned the attack
years in advance, arranging for the shipment of weapons and explosives and
using its privatized businesses to provide operatives with safehouses and
false identities.

Al-Qaeda usually does not disburse funds for attacks, and very rarely makes
wire transfers.[233]

### 1992

On December 29, 1992, al-Qaeda's first terrorist attack took place as two
bombs were detonated in Aden, Yemen. The first target was the Movenpick Hotel
and the second was the parking lot of the Goldmohur Hotel.

The bombings were an attempt to eliminate American soldiers on their way to
Somalia to take part in the international famine relief effort, Operation
Restore Hope. Internally, al-Qaeda considered the bombing a victory that
frightened the Americans away, but in the US, the attack was barely noticed.

No Americans were killed because the soldiers were staying in a different
hotel altogether, and they went on to Somalia as scheduled. However, two
people were killed in the bombing, an Australian tourist and a Yemeni hotel
worker. Seven others, mostly Yemenis, were severely injured.[234] Two fatwas
are said to have been appointed by the most theologically knowledgeable of al-
Qaeda's members, Mamdouh Mahmud Salim, to justify the killings according to
Islamic law. Salim referred to a famous fatwa appointed by Ibn Taymiyyah, a
13th-century scholar much admired by Wahhabis, which sanctioned resistance by
any means during the Mongol invasions.[235][ _unreliable source?_ ]

### Late 1990s

1998 Nairobi embassy bombing

Main articles: 1998 United States embassy bombings, 2000 millennium attack
plots, and USS Cole bombing

In 1996, bin Laden personally engineered a plot to assassinate Clinton while
the president was in Manila for the Asia-Pacific Economic Cooperation.
However, intelligence agents intercepted a message just minutes before the
motorcade was to leave, and alerted the U.S. Secret Service. Agents later
discovered a bomb planted under a bridge.[236]

On August 7, 1998, al-Qaeda bombed the U.S. embassies in East Africa, killing
224 people, including 12 Americans. In retaliation, a barrage of cruise
missiles launched by the U.S. military devastated an al-Qaeda base in Khost,
Afghanistan, but the network's capacity was unharmed. In late 1999/2000, Al-
Qaeda planned attacks to coincide with the millennium, masterminded by Abu
Zubaydah and involving Abu Qatada, which would include the bombing Christian
holy sites in Jordan, the bombing of Los Angeles International Airport by
Ahmed Ressam, and the bombing of the USS  _The Sullivans_  (DDG-68).

On October 12, 2000, al-Qaeda militants in Yemen bombed the missile destroyer
_USS Cole_ in a suicide attack, killing 17 U.S. servicemen and damaging the
vessel while it lay offshore. Inspired by the success of such a brazen attack,
al-Qaeda's command core began to prepare for an attack on the U.S. itself.

###  September 11 attacks

Main article: September 11 attacks

See also: Responsibility for the September 11 attacks

Aftermath of the September 11 attacks

The September 11 attacks were the most devastating terrorist acts in American
history, killing 2,977 victims, including 2,507 civilians, 343 firefighters,
72 law enforcement officers, and 55 military personnel. Two commercial
airliners were deliberately flown into the twin towers of the World Trade
Center, a third into the Pentagon, and a fourth, originally intended to target
either the United States Capitol or the White House, crashed in a field in
Stonycreek Township near Shanksville, Pennsylvania. It was also the deadliest
foreign attack on American soil since the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl
Harbor on December 7, 1941.

The attacks were conducted by al-Qaeda, acting in accord with the 1998 _fatwa_
issued against the U.S. and its allies by persons under the command of bin
Laden, al-Zawahiri, and others.[237] Evidence points to suicide squads led by
al-Qaeda military commander Mohamed Atta as the culprits of the attacks, with
bin Laden, Ayman al-Zawahiri, Khalid Sheikh Mohammed, and Hambali as the key
planners and part of the political and military command.

Messages issued by bin Laden after September 11, 2001, praised the attacks,
and explained their motivation while denying any involvement.[238] Bin Laden
legitimized the attacks by identifying grievances felt by both mainstream and
Islamist Muslims, such as the general perception that the U.S. was actively
oppressing Muslims.[239]

Bin Laden asserted that America was massacring Muslims in "Palestine,
Chechnya, Kashmir and Iraq" and that Muslims should retain the "right to
attack in reprisal." He also claimed the 9/11 attacks were not targeted at
people, but "America's icons of military and economic power," despite the fact
he planned to attack in the morning where most of the people in the intended
targets were present and thus generating massive amount of human
casualties.[240]

Evidence has since come to light that the original targets for the attack may
have been nuclear power stations on the east coast of the U.S. The targets
were later altered by al-Qaeda, as it was feared that such an attack "might
get out of hand".[241][242]

## Designation as a terrorist group

Al-Qaeda is deemed a designated terrorist group by the following countries and
international organizations:

  *  Australia[243]
  *  Brazil[244]
  *  Canada[245]
  *  European Union[246]
  *  France[247]
  *  India[248]
  *  Iran[249]
  *  Ireland[250]
  *  Israel[251][252]
  *  Japan[253]
  *  Kazakhstan[254]
  *  NATO[255][256]
  *  Netherlands[257]
  *  New Zealand[258]
  *  Russian Federation[259]
  *  South Korea[260]
  *  Sweden[261]
  *   Switzerland[262]
  *  Turkey designated Al-Qaeda's Turkish branch[263]
  *  United Kingdom[264]
  * United Nations Security Council[265]
  *  United States[266]

## War on Terror

Main articles: War on Terror and List of wars and battles involving al-Qaeda

US troops in Afghanistan

In the immediate aftermath of the attacks, the US government responded
militarily, and began to prepare its armed forces to overthrow the Taliban
regime it believed was harboring al-Qaeda. Before the US attacked, it offered
Taliban leader Mullah Omar a chance to surrender bin Laden and his top
associates. The first forces to be inserted into Afghanistan were Paramilitary
Officers from the CIA's elite Special Activities Division (SAD).

The Taliban offered to turn over bin Laden to a neutral country for trial if
the US would provide evidence of bin Laden's complicity in the attacks. US
President George W. Bush responded by saying: "We know he's guilty. Turn him
over",[267] and British Prime Minister Tony Blair warned the Taliban regime:
"Surrender bin Laden, or surrender power".[268]

Soon thereafter the US and its allies invaded Afghanistan, and together with
the Afghan Northern Alliance removed the Taliban government in the war in
Afghanistan.

As a result of the US using its special forces and providing air support for
the Northern Alliance ground forces, both Taliban and al-Qaeda training camps
were destroyed, and much of the operating structure of al-Qaeda is believed to
have been disrupted. After being driven from their key positions in the Tora
Bora area of Afghanistan, many al-Qaeda fighters tried to regroup in the
rugged Gardez region of the nation.

Khalid Sheikh Mohammed after his arrest in Rawalpindi, Pakistan, in March
2003.

Again, under the cover of intense aerial bombardment, US infantry and local
Afghan forces attacked, shattering the al-Qaeda position and killing or
capturing many of the militants. By early 2002, al-Qaeda had been dealt a
serious blow to its operational capacity, and the Afghan invasion appeared an
initial success. Nevertheless, a significant Taliban insurgency remains in
Afghanistan, and al-Qaeda's top two leaders, bin Laden and al-Zawahiri, evaded
capture.

Debate raged about the exact nature of al-Qaeda's role in the 9/11 attacks,
and after the US invasion began, the US State Department also released a
videotape showing bin Laden speaking with a small group of associates
somewhere in Afghanistan shortly before the Taliban was removed from
power.[269] Although its authenticity has been questioned by a couple of
people,[270] the tape definitively implicates bin Laden and al-Qaeda in the
September 11 attacks and was aired on many television channels all over the
world, with an accompanying English translation provided by the U.S. Defense
Department.[271]

In September 2004, the US government 9/11 Commission investigating the
September 11 attacks officially concluded that the attacks were conceived and
implemented by al-Qaeda operatives.[272] In October 2004, bin Laden appeared
to claim responsibility for the attacks in a videotape released through Al
Jazeera, saying he was inspired by Israeli attacks on high-rises in the 1982
invasion of Lebanon: "As I looked at those demolished towers in Lebanon, it
entered my mind that we should punish the oppressor in kind and that we should
destroy towers in America in order that they taste some of what we tasted and
so that they be deterred from killing our women and children."[273]

By the end of 2004, the U.S. government proclaimed that two-thirds of the most
senior al-Qaeda figures from 2001 had been captured and interrogated by the
CIA: Abu Zubaydah, Ramzi bin al-Shibh and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri in
2002;[274] Khalid Sheikh Mohammed in 2003; and Saif al Islam el Masry in
2004.[ _citation needed_ ] Mohammed Atef and several others were killed. The
West was criticised for not being able to comprehend or deal with Al-Qaida
despite more than a decade of the war. This also meant no progress has been
made in global state security.[275]

## Activities

### Africa

Main article: Al-Qaeda involvement in Africa

Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (formerly GSPC) area of operations

Front page of _The Guardian Weekly_ on the eighth anniversary of the September
11 attacks. The article claimed that al-Qaeda's activity is "increasingly
dispersed to 'affiliates' or 'franchises' in Yemen and North Africa."[276]

Al-Qaeda involvement in Africa has included a number of bombing attacks in
North Africa, as well as supporting parties in civil wars in Eritrea and
Somalia. From 1991 to 1996, bin Laden and other al-Qaeda leaders were based in
Sudan.

Islamist rebels in the Sahara calling themselves al-Qaeda in the Islamic
Maghreb have stepped up their violence in recent years.[277] French officials
say the rebels have no real links to the al-Qaeda leadership, but this is a
matter of some dispute in the international press and amongst security
analysts. It seems likely that bin Laden approved the group's name in late
2006, and the rebels "took on the al Qaeda franchise label", almost a year
before the violence began to escalate.[278]

In Mali, the Ansar Dine faction was also reported as an ally of al-Qaeda in
2013.[279] The Ansar al Dine faction aligned themselves with the AQIM.[280]

Following the Libyan Civil War, the removal of Gaddafi and the ensuing period
of post-civil war violence in Libya allowed various Islamist militant groups
affiliated with al-Qaeda to expand their operations in the region.[281] The
2012 Benghazi attack, which resulted in the death of US Ambassador J.
Christopher Stevens and 3 other Americans, is suspected of having been carried
out by various Jihadist networks, such as Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb,
Ansar al-Sharia and several other Al-Qaeda affiliated groups.[282][283] The
capture of Nazih Abdul-Hamed al-Ruqai, a senior al-Qaeda operative wanted by
the United States for his involvement in the 1998 United States embassy
bombings, on October 5, 2013, by US Navy Seals, FBI and CIA agents illustrates
the importance the US and other Western allies have placed on North
Africa.[284]

### Europe

Main article: Al-Qaeda involvement in Europe

Prior to the September 11 attacks, al-Qaeda was present in Bosnia and
Herzegovina, and its members were mostly former veterans of the El Mudžahid
detachment of the Bosnian Muslim Army of the Republic of Bosnia and
Herzegovina. Three members of al-Qaeda carried out the Mostar car bombing in
1997. They were closely linked to and financed by the Saudi High Commission
for Relief of Bosnia and Herzegovina founded by then-prince King Salman of
Saudi Arabia.

Before the 9/11 attacks and the US invasion of Afghanistan, recruits at al-
Qaeda training camps who had Western backgrounds were especially sought after
by al-Qaeda's military wing for conducting operations overseas. Language
skills and knowledge of Western culture were generally found among recruits
from Europe, such was the case with Mohamed Atta, an Egyptian national
studying in Germany at the time of his training, and other members of the
Hamburg Cell. Osama bin Laden and Mohammed Atef would later designate Atta as
the ringleader of the 9/11 hijackers. Following the attacks, Western
intelligence agencies determined that al-Qaeda cells operating in Europe had
aided the hijackers with financing and communications with the central
leadership based in Afghanistan.[89][285]

In 2003, Islamists carried out a series of bombings in Istanbul killing fifty-
seven people and injuring seven hundred. Seventy-four people were charged by
the Turkish authorities. Some had previously met bin Laden, and though they
specifically declined to pledge allegiance to al-Qaeda they asked for its
blessing and help.[286][287]

In 2009, three Londoners, Tanvir Hussain, Assad Sarwar and Ahmed Abdullah Ali,
were convicted of conspiring to detonate bombs disguised as soft drinks on
seven airplanes bound for Canada and the U.S. The massively complex police and
MI5 investigation of the plot involved more than a year of surveillance work
conducted by over two hundred officers.[288][289] British and U.S. officials
said the plot – unlike many similar homegrown European Islamic militant plots
– was directly linked to al-Qaeda and guided by senior al-Qaeda members in
Pakistan.[290][291]

In 2012, Russian Intelligence indicated that al-Qaeda had given a call for
"forest jihad" and has been starting massive forest fires as part of a
strategy of "thousand cuts".[292]

### Arab world

Main articles: Al-Qaeda involvement in the Middle East, Al-Qaeda in the
Islamic Maghreb, Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula, and USS Cole bombing

USS _Cole_ after the October 2000 attack

Following Yemeni unification in 1990, Wahhabi networks began moving
missionaries into the country in an effort to subvert the capitalist north.
Although it is unlikely that bin Laden or Saudi al-Qaeda were directly
involved, the personal connections they made would be established over the
next decade and used in the USS _Cole_ bombing.[293] Concerns grow over Al
Qaeda's group in Yemen.[294]

In Iraq, al-Qaeda forces loosely associated with the leadership were embedded
in the Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad group commanded by Abu Musab al-Zarqawi.
Specializing in suicide operations, they have been a "key driver" of the Sunni
insurgency.[295] Although they played a small part in the overall insurgency,
between 30% and 42% of all suicide bombings which took place in the early
years were claimed by Zarqawi's group.[296] Reports have indicated that
oversights such as the failure to control access to the Qa'qaa munitions
factory in Yusufiyah have allowed large quantities of munitions to fall into
the hands of al-Qaida.[297] In November 2010, the militant group Islamic State
of Iraq, which is linked to al-Qaeda in Iraq, threatened to "exterminate all
Iraqi Christians".[298][299]

Significantly, it was not until the late 1990s that al-Qaeda began training
Palestinians. This is not to suggest that resistance fighters are
underrepresented in the network as a number of Palestinians, mostly coming
from Jordan, wanted to join and have risen to serve high-profile roles in
Afghanistan.[300] Rather, large groups such as Hamas and Palestinian Islamic
Jihad – which cooperate with al-Qaeda in many respects – have had difficulties
accepting a strategic alliance, fearing that al-Qaeda will co-opt their
smaller cells. This may have changed recently, because the Israeli security
and intelligence services believe that al-Qaeda has managed to infiltrate
operatives from the Occupied Territories into Israel, and is waiting for the
right time to mount an attack.[300]

As of 2015[update], Saudi Arabia, Qatar and Turkey are openly supporting the
Army of Conquest,[219][301] an umbrella rebel group fighting in the Syrian
Civil War against the Syrian government that reportedly includes an al-Qaeda
linked al-Nusra Front and another Salafi coalition known as Ahrar al-
Sham.[223]

### Kashmir

Main article: Kashmir conflict

Bin Laden and Ayman al-Zawahiri consider India to be a part of the 'Crusader-
Zionist-Hindu' conspiracy against the Islamic world.[302] According to the
2005 report 'Al Qaeda: Profile and Threat Assessment' by Congressional
Research Service, bin Laden was involved in training militants for Jihad in
Kashmir while living in Sudan in the early nineties. By 2001, Kashmiri
militant group Harkat-ul-Mujahideen had become a part of the al-Qaeda
coalition.[303] According to the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees
al-Qaeda was thought to have established bases in Pakistan-administered
Kashmir (in Azad Kashmir, and to some extent in Gilgit–Baltistan) during the
1999 Kargil War and continued to operate there with tacit approval of
Pakistan's Intelligence services.[304]

Many of the militants active in Kashmir were trained in the same Madrasahs as
Taliban and al-Qaeda. Fazlur Rehman Khalil of Kashmiri militant group Harkat-
ul-Mujahideen was a signatory of al-Qaeda's 1998 declaration of Jihad against
America and its allies.[305] In a 'Letter to American People' written by bin
Laden in 2002 he stated that one of the reasons he was fighting America is
because of its support to India on the Kashmir issue.[306][307] In November
2001, Kathmandu airport went on high alert after threats that bin Laden
planned to hijack a plane from there and crash it into a target in New
Delhi.[308] In 2002, US Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld, on a trip to
Delhi, suggested that al-Qaeda was active in Kashmir though he did not have
any hard evidence.[309][310] He proposed hi tech ground sensors along the line
of control to prevent militants from infiltrating into Indian administered
Kashmir.[310] An investigation in 2002 unearthed evidence that al-Qaeda and
its affiliates were prospering in Pakistan-administered Kashmir with tacit
approval of Pakistan's National Intelligence agency Inter-Services
Intelligence[311] In 2002, a special team of Special Air Service and Delta
Force was sent into Indian Administered Kashmir to hunt for bin Laden after
reports that he was being sheltered by Kashmiri militant group Harkat-ul-
Mujahideen which had previously been responsible for 1995 Kidnapping of
western tourists in Kashmir.[312] Britain's highest ranking al-Qaeda operative
Rangzieb Ahmed had previously fought in Kashmir with the group Harkat-ul-
Mujahideen and spent time in Indian prison after being captured in
Kashmir.[313]

US officials believe that al-Qaeda was helping organize a campaign of terror
in Kashmir in order to provoke conflict between India and Pakistan.[314] Their
strategy was to force Pakistan to move its troops to the border with India,
thereby relieving pressure on al-Qaeda elements hiding in northwestern
Pakistan.[315] In 2006 al-Qaeda claimed they had established a wing in
Kashmir; this has worried the Indian government.[305][316] However the Indian
Army Lt. Gen. H.S. Panag, GOC-in-C Northern Command, said to reporters that
the army has ruled out the presence of al-Qaeda in Indian-administered Jammu
and Kashmir; furthermore he said that there is nothing that can verify reports
from the media of al-Qaeda presence in the state. He however stated that al-
Qaeda had strong ties with Kashmiri militant groups Lashkar-e-Taiba and
Jaish-e-Mohammed based in Pakistan.[317] It has been noted that Waziristan has
now become the new battlefield for Kashmiri militants fighting NATO in support
of al-Qaeda and Taliban.[318][319][320] Dhiren Barot, who wrote the _Army of
Madinah in Kashmir_[321] and was an al-Qaeda operative convicted for
involvement in the 2004 financial buildings plot, had received training in
weapons and explosives at a militant training camp in Kashmir.[322]

Maulana Masood Azhar, the founder of another Kashmiri group Jaish-e-Mohammed,
is believed to have met bin Laden several times and received funding from
him.[305] In 2002, Jaish-e-Mohammed organized the kidnapping and murder of
Daniel Pearl in an operation run in conjunction with al-Qaeda and funded by
bin Laden.[323] According to American counter-terrorism expert Bruce Riedel,
al-Qaeda and Taliban were closely involved in the 1999 hijacking of Indian
Airlines Flight 814 to Kandahar which led to the release of Maulana Masood
Azhar and Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh from an Indian prison in exchange for the
passengers. This hijacking, Riedel stated, was rightly described by then
Indian Foreign minister Jaswant Singh as a 'dress rehearsal' for September 11
attacks.[324] Bin Laden personally welcomed Azhar and threw a lavish party in
his honor after his release, according to Abu Jandal, bodyguard of bin
Laden.[325][326] Ahmed Omar Saeed Sheikh, who had been in Indian prison for
his role in 1994 kidnappings of Western tourists in India, went on to murder
Daniel Pearl and was sentenced to death by Pakistan. Al-Qaeda operative Rashid
Rauf, who was one of the accused in 2006 transatlantic aircraft plot, was
related to Maulana Masood Azhar by marriage.[327]

Lashkar-e-Taiba, a Kashmiri militant group which is thought to be behind 2008
Mumbai attacks, is also known to have strong ties to senior al-Qaeda leaders
living in Pakistan.[328] In Late 2002, top al-Qaeda operative Abu Zubaydah was
arrested while being sheltered by Lashkar-e-Taiba in a safe house in
Faisalabad.[329] The FBI believes that al-Qaeda and Lashkar have been
'intertwined' for a long time while the CIA has said that al-Qaeda funds
Lashkar-e-Taiba.[329] French investigating magistrate Jean-Louis Bruguière,
who was the top French counter-terrorism official, told Reuters in 2009 that
'Lashkar-e-Taiba is no longer a Pakistani movement with only a Kashmir
political or military agenda. Lashkar-e-Taiba is a member of al-
Qaeda.'[330][331]

In a video released in 2008, senior al-Qaeda operative American-born Adam
Yahiye Gadahn stated that "victory in Kashmir has been delayed for years; it
is the liberation of the jihad there from this interference which, Allah
willing, will be the first step towards victory over the Hindu occupiers of
that Islam land."[332]

In September 2009, a US drone strike reportedly killed Ilyas Kashmiri who was
the chief of Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, a Kashmiri militant group associated
with al-Qaeda.[333] Kashmiri was described by Bruce Riedel as a 'prominent'
al-Qaeda member[334] while others have described him as head of military
operations for al-Qaeda.[335][336] Kashmiri was also charged by the US in a
plot against Jyllands-Posten, the Danish newspaper which was at the center of
Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy.[337] US officials also believe
that Kashmiri was involved in the Camp Chapman attack against the CIA.[338] In
January 2010, Indian authorities notified Britain of an al-Qaeda plot to
hijack an Indian airlines or Air India plane and crash it into a British city.
This information was uncovered from interrogation of Amjad Khwaja, an
operative of Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami, who had been arrested in India.[339]

In January 2010, US Defense secretary Robert Gates, while on a visit to
Pakistan, stated that al-Qaeda was seeking to destabilize the region and
planning to provoke a nuclear war between India and Pakistan.[340]

### Internet

Timothy L. Thomas claims that in the wake of its evacuation from Afghanistan,
al-Qaeda and its successors have migrated online to escape detection in an
atmosphere of increased international vigilance. As a result, the group's use
of the Internet has grown more sophisticated, encompassing financing,
recruitment, networking, mobilization, publicity, as well as information
dissemination, gathering and sharing.[341]

Abu Ayyub al-Masri's al-Qaeda movement in Iraq regularly releases short videos
glorifying the activity of jihadist suicide bombers. In addition, both before
and after the death of Abu Musab al-Zarqawi (the former leader of al-Qaeda in
Iraq), the umbrella organization to which al-Qaeda in Iraq belongs, the
Mujahideen Shura Council, has a regular presence on the Web.

The range of multimedia content includes guerrilla training clips, stills of
victims about to be murdered, testimonials of suicide bombers, and videos that
show participation in jihad through stylized portraits of mosques and musical
scores. A website associated with al-Qaeda posted a video of captured American
entrepreneur Nick Berg being decapitated in Iraq. Other decapitation videos
and pictures, including those of Paul Johnson, Kim Sun-il, and Daniel Pearl,
were first posted on jihadist websites.

In December 2004 an audio message claiming to be from bin Laden was posted
directly to a website, rather than sending a copy to al Jazeera as he had done
in the past.

Al-Qaeda turned to the Internet for release of its videos in order to be
certain it would be available unedited, rather than risk the possibility of al
Jazeera editors editing the videos and cutting out anything critical of the
Saudi royal family.[342] Bin Laden's December 2004 message was much more
vehement than usual in this speech, lasting over an hour.

In the past, Alneda.com and Jehad.net were perhaps the most significant al-
Qaeda websites. Alneda was initially taken down by American Jon Messner, but
the operators resisted by shifting the site to various servers and
strategically shifting content.

The US charged a British information technology specialist, Babar Ahmad, on
terrorism charges related to his operating a network of English-language al-
Qaeda websites, such as Azzam.com. He was convicted and sentenced to
12-and-a-half years in prison.[343][344][345]

#### Online communications

In 2007, al-Qaeda released Mujahedeen Secrets, encryption software used for
online and cellular communications. A later version, Mujahideen Secrets 2, was
released in 2008.[346]

### Aviation network

Al-Qaeda is believed to be operating a clandestine aviation network including
"several Boeing 727 aircraft", turboprops and executive jets, according to a
2010 Reuters story. Based on a U.S. Department of Homeland Security report,
the story said that al-Qaeda is possibly using aircraft to transport drugs and
weapons from South America to various unstable countries in West Africa. A
Boeing 727 can carry up to 10 tons of cargo. The drugs eventually are smuggled
to Europe for distribution and sale, and the weapons are used in conflicts in
Africa and possibly elsewhere. Gunmen with links to al-Qaeda have been
increasingly kidnapping some Europeans for ransom. The profits from the drug
and weapon sales, and kidnappings can, in turn, fund more militant
activities.[347]

### Involvement in military conflicts

|

This article **possibly containsoriginal research**.  Please improve it by
verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting
only of original research should be removed. _(August 2013)_ _(Learn how and
when to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
The following is a list of military conflicts in which Al-Qaeda and its direct
affiliates have taken part militarily.

Start of conflict | End of conflict | Conflict | Continent | Location |
Branches involved  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
1991 | present | Somali Civil War | Africa | Somalia | Al-Shabaab  
1992 | 1996 | Civil war in Afghanistan (1992–96) | Asia | Islamic State of
Afghanistan | Al-Qaeda Central  
1992 | present | Al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen | Asia | Yemen | Al-Qaeda in the
Arabian Peninsula  
1996 | 2001 | Civil war in Afghanistan (1996–2001) | Asia | Islamic Emirate of
Afghanistan | Al-Qaeda Central  
2001 | present | War in Afghanistan (2001–present) | Asia | Afghanistan | Al-
Qaeda Central  
2002 | present | Insurgency in the Maghreb (2002–present) | Africa | Algeria  
Chad  
Mali  
Mauritania  
Morocco  
Niger  
Tunisia | Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb  
2003 | 2011 | Iraq War | Asia | Iraq | Al-Qaeda in Iraq

Islamic State of Iraq  
  
2004 | present | War in North-West Pakistan | Asia | Pakistan | Al-Qaeda
Central  
2009 | present | Insurgency in the North Caucasus | Asia | Russia | Caucasus
Emirate  
2011 | present | Syrian Civil War | Asia | Syria | al-Nusra Front  
  
## Alleged CIA involvement

Main article: Allegations of CIA assistance to Osama bin Laden

Experts debate whether or not the al-Qaeda attacks were an indirect result
from the American CIA's "Operation Cyclone" program to help the Afghan
mujahideen. Robin Cook, British Foreign Secretary from 1997 to 2001, has
written that al-Qaeda and bin Laden were "a product of a monumental
miscalculation by western security agencies", and that "Al-Qaida, literally
'the database', was originally the computer file of the thousands of
mujahideen who were recruited and trained with help from the CIA to defeat the
Russians."[348]

Munir Akram, Permanent Representative of Pakistan to the United Nations from
2002 to 2008, wrote in a letter published in the _New York Times_ on January
19, 2008:

> The strategy to support the Afghans against Soviet military intervention was
evolved by several intelligence agencies, including the C.I.A. and Inter-
Services Intelligence, or ISI. After the Soviet withdrawal, the Western powers
walked away from the region, leaving behind 40,000 militants imported from
several countries to wage the anti-Soviet jihad. Pakistan was left to face the
blowback of extremism, drugs and guns.[349]

A variety of sources – CNN journalist Peter Bergen, Pakistani ISI Brigadier
Mohammad Yousaf, and CIA operatives involved in the Afghan program, such as
Vincent Cannistraro – deny that the CIA or other American officials had
contact with the foreign mujahideen or bin Laden, let alone armed, trained,
coached or indoctrinated them.

Bergen and others argue that there was no need to recruit foreigners
unfamiliar with the local language, customs or lay of the land since there
were a quarter of a million local Afghans willing to fight;[350] that foreign
mujahideen themselves had no need for American funds since they received
several hundred million dollars a year from non-American, Muslim sources; that
Americans could not have trained mujahideen because Pakistani officials would
not allow more than a handful of them to operate in Pakistan and none in
Afghanistan; and that the Afghan Arabs were almost invariably militant
Islamists reflexively hostile to Westerners whether or not the Westerners were
helping the Muslim Afghans.

According to Bergen, known for conducting the first television interview with
bin Laden in 1997, the idea that "the CIA funded bin Laden or trained bin
Laden... [is] a folk myth. There's no evidence of this... Bin Laden had his
own money, he was anti-American and he was operating secretly and
independently... The real story here is the CIA didn't really have a clue
about who this guy was until 1996 when they set up a unit to really start
tracking him."[351]

English journalist Jason Burke wrote:

> It is often said that bin Laden was funded by the CIA. This is not true and,
indeed, would have been impossible given the structure of funding that General
Zia ul-Haq, who had taken power in Pakistan in 1977, had set up. A condition
of Zia's cooperation with the American plan to turn Afghanistan into the
Soviets' 'Vietnam' was that all American funding to the Afghan resistance had
to be channelled through the Pakistani government, which in effect meant the
Afghan bureau of the Inter Services Intelligence (ISI), the military spy
agency. The American funding, which went exclusively to the Afghan mujahideen
groups, not the Arab volunteers, was supplemented by Saudi government money
and huge funds raised from mosques, non-governmental charitable institutions
and private donors throughout the Islamic world.[352]

## Broader influence

Anders Behring Breivik, the perpetrator of the 2011 Norway attacks, was
inspired by al-Qaeda, calling it "the most successful revolutionary movement
in the world." While admitting different aims, he sought to "create a European
version of al-Qaida."[353][354]

## Criticism

Main article: Khawarij

Extremism within Islam goes back to the Kharijites of the 7th century. From
their essentially political position, they developed extreme doctrines that
set them apart from both mainstream Sunni and Shiʿa Muslims. The Kharijites
were particularly noted for adopting a radical approach to Takfir, whereby
they declared other Muslims to be unbelievers and therefore deemed them worthy
of death.[355][356][357]

According to a number of sources, a "wave of revulsion" has been expressed
against al-Qaeda and its affiliates by "religious scholars, former fighters
and militants" who are alarmed by al-Qaeda's takfir and its killing of Muslims
in Muslim countries, especially in Iraq.[358]

Noman Benotman, a former Afghan Arab and a militant member of the Libyan
Islamic Fighting Group, went public with an open letter of criticism to Ayman
al-Zawahiri in November 2007 after persuading the imprisoned senior leaders of
his former group to enter into peace negotiations with the Libyan regime.
While Ayman al-Zawahiri announced the affiliation of the group with al-Qaeda
in November 2007, the Libyan government released 90 members of the group from
prison several months later after "they were said to have renounced
violence."[359]

In 2007, around the sixth anniversary of the September 11 attacks and a couple
of months before _Rationalizing Jihad_ first appeared in the newspapers,[129]
the Saudi sheikh Salman al-Ouda delivered a personal rebuke to bin Laden. Al-
Ouda, a religious scholar and one of the fathers of the Sahwa, the
fundamentalist awakening movement that swept through Saudi Arabia in the
1980s, is a widely respected critic of jihadism. [ _citation needed_ ] Al-Ouda
addressed al-Qaeda's leader on television asking him

> My brother Osama, how much blood has been spilt? How many innocent people,
children, elderly, and women have been killed... in the name of al-Qaeda? Will
you be happy to meet God Almighty carrying the burden of these hundreds of
thousands or millions [of victims] on your back?[360]

According to Pew polls, support for al-Qaeda has been slightly dropped for
parts of the Muslim world in the years before 2008.[361] The numbers
supporting suicide bombings in Indonesia, Lebanon, and Bangladesh, for
instance, have dropped by half or more in the last five years. In Saudi
Arabia, only 10 percent now have a favorable view of al-Qaeda, according to a
December poll by Terror Free Tomorrow, a Washington-based think tank.[362]

In 2007, the imprisoned Sayyed Imam Al-Sharif, an influential Afghan Arab,
"ideological godfather of al-Qaeda", and former supporter of takfir,
sensationally withdrew his support from al-Qaeda with a book _Wathiqat Tarshid
Al-'Aml Al-Jihadi fi Misr w'Al-'Alam_ ( _Rationalizing Jihad in Egypt and the
World_ ).

Although once associated with al-Qaeda, in September 2009 LIFG completed a new
"code" for jihad, a 417-page religious document entitled "Corrective Studies".
Given its credibility and the fact that several other prominent Jihadists in
the Middle East have turned against al-Qaeda, the LIFG's about face may be an
important step toward staunching al-Qaeda's recruitment.[363]

## See also

|

  * Book: Islamic terrorism
  * Book: Islamic terrorist groups

  
---|---  
  
  * Al Qaeda Network Exord
  * Al-Qaeda involvement in Asia
  * Bin Laden Issue Station (former CIA unit for tracking bin Laden)
  * Mujahideen
  * Fatawā of Osama bin Laden
  * List of designated terrorist groups
  * Operation Cannonball
  * Psychological warfare
  * Religious terrorism
  * Steven Emerson
  * Takfir wal-Hijra
  * Videos of Osama bin Laden
  * List of armed groups in the Syrian Civil War
  * List of wars and battles involving al-Qaeda
  * Violent extremism
  * Islamic Military Alliance

**Publications:**

  * _Al Qaeda Handbook_
  * _Management of Savagery_

##  References

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Moghadam, Assaf (2008). _The Globalization of Martyrdom: Al Qaeda, Salafi Jihad, and the Diffusion of Suicide Attacks_. Johns Hopkins University. p.  48\. ISBN 978-0-8018-9055-0. 
  2. **^** Livesey, Bruce (January 25, 2005). "Special Reports – The Salafist Movement: Al Qaeda's New Front". _PBS Frontline_. WGBH educational foundation. Retrieved  October 18, 2011.   
Geltzer, Joshua A. (2011). _US Counter-Terrorism Strategy and al-Qaeda:
Signalling and the Terrorist World-View_ (Reprint ed.). Routledge. p.  83\.
ISBN 978-0415664523.

  3. **^** Wright, _Looming Tower_ , 2006, p. 79
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Future of Terrorism: What al-Qaida Really Wants". _Der Spiegel_. September 11, 2001. Archived from the original on March 7, 2012. Retrieved  October 18, 2011. 
  5. **^** "Al-Qaeda seeks global dominance". _The Daily Telegraph_. London. Archived from the original on January 12, 2012.    
"Jihadists Want Global Caliphate". ThePolitic.com. July 27, 2005. Retrieved
October 18, 2011.  
Pike, John. "Al-Qaida". Globalsecurity.org. Retrieved October 18, 2011.  
Burke, Jason (March 21, 2004). "What exactly does al-Qaeda want?". _The
Guardian_. London.

  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _United States v. Usama bin Laden et al._ , Cr. 1023, Testimony of Jamal Ahmed Mohamed al-Fadl (SDNY February 6, 2001).  
"Al-Qaeda's origins and links". BBC News. July 20, 2004. Retrieved June 3,
2014.  
Cooley, John K. (Spring 2003). _Unholy Wars: Afghanistan, America and
International Terrorism_.

  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Conversation With Terror". _Time_. January 1999. Retrieved  March 22, 2015. 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ October 6, 2002. Appeared in Al-Qala'a website and then _The Observer_ and _The Guardian_ on November 24, 2002.
  9. **^** "frontline: the terrorist and the superpower: who is bin laden?: interview with osama bin laden (in may 1998)". pbs.org. Archived from the original on May 8, 1999.  
  10. **^** "New ISIS and Al-Qaeda propaganda prioritize the US and Jews as targets". _Anti-Defamation League_.  
  11. **^** "ISIS Augments Its Threats Against Israel". _Anti-Defamation League_.  
  12. **^** Evan Centanni (May 31, 2013). "War in Somalia: Map of Al Shabaab Control (June 2013)". _Political Geography Now_. Retrieved  August 18, 2014. 
  13. **^** "Prensa Latina News Agency". Retrieved  April 12, 2016. 
  14. **^** "Aden intelligence service building targeted". _AFP_. _Gulf News_. August 22, 2015. Retrieved  August 22, 2015. 
  15. **^** Bill Roggio (April 26, 2011). "How many al Qaeda operatives are now left in Afghanistan?". Longwarjournal.org. Retrieved April 10, 2014. 
  16. **^** "Al Qaeda in Afghanistan Is Attempting A Comeback". _The Huffington Post_. October 21, 2012. Archived from the original on October 23, 2012. Retrieved  April 10, 2014. 
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Al-Qaeda map: Isis, Boko Haram and other affiliates' strongholds across Africa and Asia". June 12, 2014. Retrieved  August 29, 2014. 
  18. **^** "Al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (AQIM)". _Council on Foreign Relations_. March 27, 2015. Retrieved  July 2, 2015. 
  19. **^** "Profile: Al-Qaeda in North Africa". BBC. January 17, 2013. Retrieved  July 2, 2015. 
  20. **^** "Mali: qui sont les nouveaux chefs des katibas jihadistes?". _Radio France internationale_. May 14, 2014. Retrieved  August 19, 2015. 
  21. **^** "Notorious Extremist Said to Head Al-Qaida West Africa Branch". _abc_. August 15, 2015. Retrieved  August 19, 2015. 
  22. **^** "Al-Qaida wing claims to form 12,000-strong army in southern Yemen".  
  23. **^** "The Failure of Counterinsurgency: Why Hearts and Minds Are Seldom Won". 2013.  
  24. **^** "Al Qaeda finds base in India, Modi is on its radar". _The Sunday Guardian_. March 29, 2014. Retrieved  January 11, 2017. 
  25. **^** "Jihadist groups across globe vying for terror spotlight". Fox News Channel. July 10, 2014. Retrieved  January 7, 2015. 
  26. **^** Al-awsat, Asharq (30 January 2017). "Syria: Surfacing of 'Hai'at Tahrir al-Sham' Threatens Truce". 
  27. **^** "Global al Qaeda: Affiliates, Objectives, and Future Challenges". _dentisty.org_. Retrieved  June 6, 2017. 
  28. **^** "Al Qaeda's Sinai commander was Bin Laden's physician Dr. Ramzi Mowafi, a chemical arms expert". _ncrenegade.com_. July 21, 2013. Retrieved  June 6, 2017. 
  29. **^** https://www.haaretz.com/middle-east-news/1.795628
  30. **^** Thomas, Carls. "The Saudis channel the mafia: Fears of Saudi retaliation deter truth about 9/11". _The Washington Times_. Retrieved  28 April 2016. 
  31. **^** Bergen 2006, p. 75.
  32. **^** "Bill Moyers Journal. A Brief History of Al Qaeda". PBS.com. July 27, 2007. Retrieved  March 31, 2012. 
  33. **^** Wright 2006, pp. 107–108, 185, 270–271
  34. **^** Wright 2006, p. 270.
  35. **^** "al Qaida's Ideology". MI5. Archived from the original on February 28, 2009. Retrieved  May 19, 2012. 
  36. **^** "Dreaming of a caliphate". _The Economist_. August 6, 2011. Retrieved  May 19, 2012. 
  37. **^** Fu'ad Husayn 'Al-Zarqawi, "The Second Generation of al-Qa'ida, Part Fourteen," _Al-Quds al-Arabi_ , July 13, 2005
  38. **^** Ranstorp, Magnus (2009). _Unconventional Weapons and International Terrorism_. Routledge. p.  33\. ISBN 978-0-415-48439-8. 
  39. **^** Lawrence Wright (2006). _The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11_. Knopf. p.  246\. ISBN 0-375-41486-X. 
  40. **^** Jihadi Terrorism and the Radicalisation Challenge: p.219, Rik Coolsaet – 2011
  41. **^** Dragons and Tigers: A Geography of South, East, and Southeast Asia – (2011) – Barbara A. Weightman
  42. **^** Security strategy and transatlantic relations (2006) Roland Dannreuther
  43. **^** Jihad and Just War in the War on Terror (2011) Alia Brahimi
  44. **^** al-Hammadi, Khalid, "The Inside Story of al-Qa'ida", part 4, _Al-Quds al-Arabi_ , March 22, 2005
  45. **^** J. Feiser – "Evolution of the al-Qaeda brand name". _Asia Times_. August 13, 2004. Archived from the original on April 23, 2005. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  46. **^** "The Moral Logic and Growth of Suicide Terrorism – Spring 2006" (PDF). Retrieved March 22, 2010. 
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Blitz, James (January 19, 2010). "A threat transformed". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  January 23, 2010. 
  48. **^** "A Discussion on the New Crusader Wars: Tayseer Allouni with Usamah bin Laden". IslamicAwakening.com. Archived from the original on June 21, 2013.  
  49. **^** Daniel Cassman. "Al Qaeda Kurdish Battalions". Retrieved April 12, 2016. 
  50. **^** "Al Qaida Linked and Africa Group Unites with Mali Extremists". December 4, 2015. Archived from the original on December 10, 2015. Retrieved  June 21, 2016 – via washingtonpost.com. 
  51. **^** "Al Qaeda: The Balkans Connection". Project MUSE. Retrieved  April 12, 2016. 
  52. **^** "BIFF, Abu Sayyaf pledge allegiance to Islamic State jihadists". _GMA News Online_. Retrieved  April 12, 2016. 
  53. **^** Balz, Dan (August 27, 2011). "Al Qaidas No. 2 leader Atiyah Abd al-Rahman killed in Pakistan". _The Washington Post_.  [ _dead link_ ]
  54. **^** "Al-Qaida Says Al-Zawahri Has Succeeded Bin Laden". _The New York Times_. Associated Press. June 16, 2011. Retrieved  June 6, 2011. 
  55. **^** Walsh, Declan; Schmitt, Eric (June 5, 2012). "Drone Strike Killed No. 2 in Al Qaeda, U.S. Officials Say". _The New York Times_.  
  56. **^** Al Qaeda Confirms U.S. Strike Killed Nasser al-Wuhayshi, Its Leader in Yemen, _The New York Times_ , Kareem Fahim, June 16, 2015
  57. **^** Gunaratna 2002, p. 54.
  58. **^** White House 2003.
  59. **^** Basile 2004, p. 177.
  60. **^** Wechsler 2001, p. 135; cited in Gunaratna 2002, p. 63.
  61. **^** Businesses are run from below, with the council only being consulted on new proposals and collecting funds.  
See:

    * Hoffman 2002.
  62. **^** C. Glenn – _The Islamists_ The Wilson Centre September 28, 2015 Accessed June 15th, 2017 – "... Zawahiri does not claim to have direct hierarchical control over al Qaeda’s vast, networked structure. Al Qaeda’s core leadership seeks to centralize the organization’s messaging and strategy rather than to manage the daily operations of its franchises. But formal affiliates are required to consult with al Qaeda’s core leadership before carrying out large-scale attacks."
  63. **^** "Cops: London Attacks Were Homicide Blasts". Fox News Channel. July 15, 2005. Retrieved  June 15, 2008. 
  64. **^** Bennetto, Jason; Ian Herbert (August 13, 2005). "London bombings: the truth emerges". _The Independent_. UK. Archived from the original on October 26, 2006. Retrieved  December 3, 2006. 
  65. **^** Al-Bahri, Nasser, _Guarding bin Laden: My Life in al-Qaeda_. p. 185. Thin Man Press. London. ISBN 9780956247360
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _The Power of Nightmares_, BBC Documentary.
  67. **^** McCloud, Kimberly; Osborne, Matthew (March 7, 2001). "WMD Terrorism and Usama bin Laden". _CNS Reports_. James Martin Center for Nonproliferation Studies. Archived from the original on May 6, 2011. Retrieved  May 4, 2011. 
  68. **^** McGeary 2001.
  69. **^** "Witness: Bin Laden planned attack on U.S. embassy in Saudi Arabia". CNN. February 13, 2001. Retrieved  June 12, 2007. 
  70. **^** Secret Osama bin Laden files reveal al Qaeda membership, _The Telegraph_ accessed July 26, 2013
  71. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Cassidy 2006, p. 9.
  72. **^** Noah, Timothy (February 25, 2009). "The Terrorists-Are-Dumb Theory: Don't mistake these guys for criminal masterminds". _Slate_. Archived from the original on February 27, 2009.  
  73. **^** Gerges, Fawaz A (September 5, 2005). _The Far Enemy: Why Jihad Went Global_. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-79140-5.  
  74. **^** Jihad's New Leaders by Daveed Gartenstein-Ross and Kyle Dabruzzi, _Middle East Quarterly_ , Summer 2007
  75. **^** "Today's jihadists: educated, wealthy and bent on killing?". Canada.com. July 3, 2007. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  76. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Who is Bin Laden?. Retrieved May 5, 2011
  77. **^** Eric Lichtbau and Eric Schmitt Cash Flow to Terrorists Evades U.S. Efforts _The New York Times_ , December 5, 2010
  78. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ "History Commons". Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  79. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ United States of America v. Usama bin Laden. Wikisource. Retrieved June 10, 2016.
  80. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Simpson, Glenn R. (June 21, 2004). "A Sprawling Probe of Terror Funding Centers in Virginia". Retrieved  June 21, 2016 – via Wall Street Journal. 
  81. **^** Simpson, Glenn R.; Wartzman, Rick (November 3, 2001). "U.S. Probes Saudi Conglomerate For Links to Islamic Militants". Retrieved June 21, 2016 – via Wall Street Journal. 
  82. **^** Simpson, Glenn R. (March 19, 2003). "List of Early al Qaeda Donors Points to Saudi Elite, Charities". Retrieved June 21, 2016 – via Wall Street Journal. 
  83. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Emerson, Steve (2006). _Jihad Incorporated: A Guide to Militant Islam in the US_. Prometheus Books. p. 382.
  84. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ "Treasury Designates Al-Qa'ida Supporters in Qatar and Yemen". Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  85. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "How Qatar Is Funding al-Qaeda – and Why That Could Help the US". Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Ban Ki-Moon shakes hands with alleged al Qaeda emir". The Long War Journal. Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  87. **^** "Terrorist paymaster targeted by Britain". Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  88. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Security Council Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee Amends One Entry on Its Sanctions List – Meetings Coverage and Press Releases". Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  89. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The 9/11 Commission Report" (PDF). 
  90. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _United States vs. Enaam M. Arnaout_
  91. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "IPT Exclusive: Qatar's Insidious Influence on the Brookings Institution". Qatar Daily Star. Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  92. **^** Reports, CATF. "Qatar Charity, Pioneer and Master of Terror Finance". _stopterrorfinance.org_. Retrieved  June 6, 2017. 
  93. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Reports, CATF. "Funding Al Nusra Through Ransom: Qatar and the Myth of "Humanitarian Principle"". _stopterrorfinance.org_. Retrieved  June 6, 2017. 
  94. **^** صفقة العسكريين: 25 مليون دولار لـ«النصرة».. وهامش تحرك في عرسال | الشرق الأوسط
  95. **^** "Syrian conflict said to fuel sectarian tensions in Persian Gulf". Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  96. **^** "Analysis: Qatar still negligent on terror finance – The Long War Journal". Retrieved  June 21, 2016. 
  97. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Atwan, Abdel Bari (March 11, 2005). _The Secret History of Al Qaeda_. University of California Press. p. 221\. ISBN 0-520-24974-7. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. Retrieved  May 8, 2011 – via Google Books. 
  98. **^** "single – The Jamestown Foundation". Retrieved  April 12, 2016. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  99. **^** Musharbash, Yassir (August 12, 2005). "The Future of Terrorism: What al-Qaida Really Wants". _Der Spiegel_. Retrieved  January 15, 2015. 
  100. **^** BBC April 6, 2016
  101. **^** Arabic Computer Dictionary: English-Arabic, Arabic-English By Ernest Kay, Multi-lingual International Publishers, 1986.
  102. **^** "Listen to the U.S. pronunciation". Archived from the original (RealPlayer) on December 11, 2005. 
  103. **^** "Transcript of Bin Laden's October interview". CNN. February 5, 2002. Archived from the original on December 6, 2006. Retrieved  October 22, 2006. 
  104. **^** Bergen 2006, p. 75\. Wright indirectly quotes one of the documents, based on an exhibit from the "Tareek Osama" document presented in _United States v. Enaam M. Arnaout_.
  105. **^** Robin Cook (July 8, 2005). "Robin Cook: The struggle against terrorism cannot be won by military means". _The Guardian_. UK. Archived from the original on May 14, 2011. Retrieved  May 8, 2011. 
  106. **^** "After Mombassa Archived May 14, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.", _Al-Ahram Weekly Online_ , January 2–8, 2003 (Issue No. 619). Retrieved September 3, 2006.
  107. **^** Wright 2006, p. 332.
  108. **^** Qutb 2003, pp. 63, 69.
  109. **^** Wright 2006, p. 79.
  110. **^** "How Did Sayyid Qutb Influence Osama bin Laden?". Gemsofislamism.tripod.com. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  111. **^** Mafouz Azzam; cited in Wright 2006, p. 36.
  112. **^** "Sayyid Qutb's Milestones (footnote 24)". Gemsofislamism.tripod.com. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  113. **^** EIKMEIER, DALE C. (Spring 2007). "Qutbism: An Ideology of Islamic-Fascism". _Parameters_. pp.  85–98. Archived from the original on June 9, 2007. 
  114. **^** Kepel, Gilles (2002). _Jihad: The Trail of Political Islam_. Harvard University Press.  
  115. **^** Abdel Bari Atwan. _The Secret History of Al Qaeda_ , p. 233. University of California Press, 2006. ISBN 0-520-24974-7
  116. **^** Jason Burke & Paddy Allen (September 10, 2009). "The five ages of al-Qaida". _The Guardian_. UK. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  117. **^** "1986–1992: CIA and British Recruit and Train Militants Worldwide to Help Fight Afghan War". Cooperative Research History Commons. Archived from the original on August 18, 2013. Retrieved  January 9, 2007. 
  118. **^** Bergen, Peter L., _Holy war, Inc.: inside the secret world of Osama bin Laden_ , New York: Free Press, 2001. pp. 68–x69
  119. **^** Bergen, Peter L., _Holy war, Inc.: Inside the Secret World of Osama bin Laden_ , New York: Free Press, 2001., pp. 70–71
  120. **^** "Maktab al-Khidamat". GlobalSecurity.org. January 11, 2006. Archived from the original on February 14, 2007. Retrieved  February 11, 2007. 
  121. **^** Wright 2006.
  122. **^** Gunaratna 2002, p. 19\. Quotes taken from Riedel 2008, p. 42 and Wright 2006, p. 103.
  123. **^** Cloonan _Frontline_ interview, PBS, July 13, 2005.
  124. **^** Sageman 2004, p. 35.
  125. **^** Wright 2006, p. 137.
  126. **^** "The War on Terror and the Politics of Violence in Pakistan". The Jamestown Foundation. July 2, 2004. Archived from the original on December 8, 2006. Retrieved  January 9, 2007. 
  127. **^** "Who Is Osama Bin Laden?". _Forbes_. September 14, 2001.
  128. **^** "Frankenstein the CIA created". January 17, 1999. _The Guardian_.
  129. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Wright 2008.
  130. **^** Wright 2006, pp. 133–34.
  131. **^** Al-Bahri, Nasser, _Guarding bin Laden: My Life in al-Qaeda_. p. 123. Thin Man Press. London. ISBN 9780956247360
  132. **^** Wright 2006, p. 260.
  133. **^** Wright 2006, p. 181.
  134. **^** "Osama bin Laden: The Past". Archived from the original on February 18, 2007. Retrieved  January 12, 2007. 
  135. **^** Jehl, Douglas (December 27, 2001). "A Nation Challenged: Holy war lured Saudis as rulers looked away". _The New York Times_. pp.  A1, B4. Retrieved September 5, 2009. 
  136. **^** Riedel 2008, p. 52.
  137. **^** Wright 2006, p. 186.
  138. **^** Wright 2006, p. 195.
  139. **^** "Osama bin Laden: A Chronology of His Political Life". PBS. Archived from the original on December 5, 2006. Retrieved  January 12, 2007. 
  140. **^** "Context of 'Shortly After April 1994 '". Cooperative Research History Commons. Archived from the original on August 19, 2013. Retrieved January 12, 2007. 
  141. **^** Ijaz, Mansoor (December 5, 2001). "Clinton Let Bin Laden Slip Away and Metastasize". _Los Angeles Times_. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  142. **^** Carney, Timothy; Ijaz, Mansoor (June 30, 2002). "Intelligence Failure? Let's Go Back to Sudan". _Washington Post_. Retrieved  March 13, 2016. 
  143. **^** Rose, David (January 2002). "The Osama Files". _Vanity Fair_. Archived from the original on December 5, 2008. Retrieved  December 1, 2008. 
  144. **^** Belz, Mindy (November 1, 2003). "Clinton did not have the will to respond". _World_. Archived from the original on December 6, 2008. Retrieved  December 1, 2008. 
  145. **^** "National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States". Govinfo.library.unt.edu. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  146. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rashid 2002.
  147. **^** Napoleoni 2003, pp. 121–23; Akacem 2005 "Napoleoni does a decent job of covering al-Qaida and presents some numbers and estimates that are of value to terrorism scholars"
  148. **^** Kronstadt & Katzman 2008.
  149. **^** Eisenberg, Daniel (October 28, 2001). "Secrets of Brigade 055". _Time_.  
  150. **^** Robertson, Nic. "Sources: Taliban split with al Qaeda, seek peace". CNN. Retrieved March 22, 2010. 
  151. **^** Roggio, Bill Taliban have not split from al Qaeda: sources October 7, 2008 _The Long War Journal_
  152. **^** Partlow, Joshua. In Afghanistan, Taliban surpasses al-Qaeda" November 11, 2009
  153. **^** Sageman 2004, pp. 48, 51.
  154. **^** Trofimov 2006, p. 282.
  155. **^** "Bin Laden's Fatwa". Al Quds Al Arabi. August 1996. Archived from the original on January 8, 2007. Retrieved  January 9, 2007. 
  156. **^** Summary taken from bin Laden's May 26, 1998, interview with American journalist John Miller. Most recently broadcast in the documentary _Age of Terror_ , part 4, with translations checked by Barry Purkis (archive researcher).
  157. **^** "Text of Fatwah Urging Jihad Against Americans". Archived from the original on April 22, 2006. Retrieved  May 15, 2006. 
  158. **^** Benjamin & Simon 2002, p. 117\. "By issuing fatwas, bin Laden and his followers are acting out a kind of self-appointment as alim: they are asserting their rights as interpreters of Islamic law."
  159. **^** Al Qaeda's hand in tipping Iraq toward civil war, _The Christian Science Monitor_ / _Al-Quds Al-Arabi_ , March 20, 2006
  160. **^** "Another wave of bombings hit Iraq". _International Herald Tribune_. Associated Press. September 15, 2005. Archived from the original on February 12, 2009.  
  161. **^** "20 die as insurgents in Iraq target Shiites". _International Herald Tribune_. September 17, 2005. Archived from the original on February 12, 2009.  
  162. **^** "Al-Qaeda disowns 'fake letter'", CNN, October 13, 2005
  163. **^** "British 'fleeing' claims al-Qaeda". Adnkronos.com. April 7, 2003. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. Retrieved  May 8, 2011. 
  164. **^** "Al Qaeda leader in Iraq 'killed by insurgents '". ABC News. May 1, 2007. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. 
  165. **^** DeYoung, Karen/Pincus, Walter. "Al-Qaeda in Iraq May Not Be Threat Here", _The Washington Post_ , March 18, 2007
  166. **^** Liz Sly (February 3, 2014). "Al-Qaeda disavows any ties with radical Islamist ISIS group in Syria, Iraq". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  August 6, 2014. 
  167. **^** "Somalia's al-Shabab join al-Qaeda". BBC. February 10, 2012.  
  168. **^** "Al-Shabaab joining al Qaeda, monitor group says". CNN. February 9, 2012. Retrieved  February 9, 2012. 
  169. **^** Johnston, Philip (September 17, 2010). "Anwar al Awlaki: the new Osama bin Laden?". _The Daily Telegraph_. London.  
  170. **^** "NEWS.BBC.co.uk". BBC. January 3, 2010. Archived from the original on March 23, 2010. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  171. **^** "Al-Qaeda Slowly Makes Its Way to Somalia and Yemen". Pravda.ru. Retrieved  September 23, 2009. 
  172. **^** "Hunt for terrorists shifts to 'dangerous' North Africa, Panetta says". NBC News. Archived from the original on May 8, 2012. Retrieved  August 5, 2013. 
  173. **^** "Al Qaeda: We Planned Flight 253 Bombing Terrorist Group Says It Was In Retaliation for U.S. Operation in Yemen; Obama Orders Reviews of Watchlist and Air Safety". CBS News. December 28, 2009. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  174. **^** Grace Wyler (March 31, 2011). "AQAP: Abyan province an "Islamic Emirate."". _Business Insider_. Retrieved  April 12, 2016. 
  175. **^** "Jihadis likely winners of Saudi Arabia's futile war on Yemen's Houthi rebels". _The Guardian_. July 7, 2015.  
  176. **^** "Yemen conflict: Al-Qaeda joins coalition battle for Taiz". BBC. February 22, 2016.  
  177. **^** "Bin Laden Preparing to Hijack US Aircraft and Other Attacks". Director of Central Intelligence. December 4, 1998. Archived from the original on October 15, 2012. Retrieved  April 18, 2010. 
  178. **^** National Commission on Terrorist Attacks (July 22, 2004). _The 9/11 Commission Report_ (PDF) (first ed.). W. W. Norton & Company. ISBN 0-393-32671-3. 
  179. **^** "Lost lives remembered during 9/11 ceremony". The Online Rocket. September 12, 2008. Archived from the original on June 29, 2011. Retrieved  April 4, 2012. 
  180. **^** Chucmach, Megan, and Ross, Brian, "Al Qaeda Recruiter New Focus in Fort Hood Killings Investigation Army Major Nidal Hasan Was In Contact With Imam Anwar Awlaki, Officials Say," ABC News , November 10, 2009. Retrieved November 12, 2009
  181. **^** Esposito, Richard, Cole, Matthew, and Ross, Brian, "Officials: U.S. Army Told of Hasan's Contacts with al Qaeda; Army Major in Fort Hood Massacre Used 'Electronic Means' to Connect with Terrorists," _ABC News_ , November 9, 2009. Retrieved November 12, 2009
  182. **^** WashingtonPost.com February 27, 2008 Imam From Va. Mosque Now Thought to Have Aided Al-Qaeda.
  183. **^** Miller, Greg (April 6, 2010). "Muslim cleric Aulaqi is 1st U.S. citizen on list of those CIA is allowed to kill". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  April 9, 2010. 
  184. **^** Shane, Scott (April 6, 2010). "U.S. Approves Targeted Killing of American Cleric". _The New York Times_. Archived from the original on April 8, 2010. Retrieved  April 6, 2010. 
  185. **^** Leonard, Tom (April 7, 2010). "Barack Obama orders killing of US cleric Anwar al-Awlaki". London: Telegraph (UK). Archived from the original on April 11, 2010. Retrieved April 8, 2010. 
  186. **^** Dreazen, Yochi J.; Perez, Evan (May 6, 2010). "Suspect Cites Radical Imam's Writings". _The Wall Street Journal_. Archived from the original on May 9, 2010. Retrieved  May 6, 2010. 
  187. **^** Herridge, Catherine (May 6, 2010). "Times Square Bomb Suspect a 'Fan' of Prominent Radical Cleric, Sources Say". Fox News Channel. Archived from the original on May 7, 2010. Retrieved May 7, 2010. 
  188. **^** Esposito, Richard; Chris Vlasto; Chris Cuomo (May 6, 2010). "Faisal Shahzad Had Contact With Anwar Awlaki, Taliban, and Mumbai Massacre Mastermind, Officials Say". _The Blotter from Brian Ross_. ABC News. Archived from the original on May 9, 2010. Retrieved  May 7, 2010. 
  189. **^** "Awlaki Not Among FBI's 'Most Wanted' Terrorists; No Reward Offered for His Capture May 24, 2010, by Patrick Goodenough". Cnsnews.com. May 24, 2010. Archived from the original on August 12, 2010. Retrieved  July 17, 2010. 
  190. **^** May 10, 2010, editorial in the Investor's Business Daily
  191. **^** "Awlaki lands on al-Qaida suspect list". United Press International. Archived from the original on October 23, 2010. Retrieved  October 30, 2010. 
  192. **^** Mark Wilson (August 5, 2010). "CIA on the verge of lawsuit" (PDF). Seer Press News. 
  193. **^** Rayment, Sean; Hennessy, Patrick; Barrett, David (October 30, 2010). "Yemen cargo bomb plot may have been targeted at Britain". _The Daily Telegraph_. London. Archived from the original on November 1, 2010. Retrieved  October 31, 2010. 
  194. **^** Zenko, Micah. (September 30, 2011) Targeted Killings: The Death of Anwar al-Awlaki. _Council on Foreign Relations_. Retrieved August 4, 2013
  195. **^** "Osama Bin Laden 'plotted to kill Obama' before death". BBC News. March 17, 2012.  
  196. **^** Adams, Richard; Walsh, Declan; MacAskill, Ewen (May 1, 2011). "Osama bin Laden is dead, Obama announces". _The Guardian_. London.  
  197. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Osama Bin Laden Killed by US Strike". ABC News. May 1, 2011.  
  198. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ the CNN Wire (May 2, 2011). "How U.S. forces killed Osama bin Laden". Cable News Network. Retrieved May 2, 2011. 
  199. **^** "Osama Bin Laden Killed By Navy Seals in Firefight". ABC News. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. Retrieved  May 2, 2011. 
  200. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Balz, Dan (May 2, 2011). "Osama bin Laden is killed by U.S. forces in Pakistan". _The Washington Post_.  
  201. **^** "Chitralis bewildered at OBL episode". Chitralnews.com. May 2, 2011. Retrieved  May 8, 2011. 
  202. **^** "Osama bin Laden, the face of terror, killed in Pakistan". CNN. May 2, 2011. Archived from the original on May 6, 2011. Retrieved  May 2, 2011. 
  203. **^** "Osama Bin Laden Dead: Obama Speech Video And Transcript" _The Huffington Post_ , May 2, 2011
  204. **^** "Report: DNA At Mass. General Confirms bin Laden's Death". Thebostonchannel.com. February 5, 2011. Archived from the original on May 18, 2011. Retrieved  May 2, 2011. 
  205. **^** "Osama bin Laden Killed; ID Confirmed by DNA Testing". ABC News. May 1, 2011.  
  206. **^** "US forces kill Osama bin Laden in Pakistan". MSN.  
  207. **^** "Official: Bin Laden buried at sea". Yahoo! News. May 2, 2011. Archived from the original on May 4, 2011. Retrieved  May 8, 2011. 
  208. **^** "U.S forces kill elusive terror figure Osama Bin Laden in Pakistan". CNN. May 2, 2011.  
  209. **^** "Crowds celebrate Bin Laden's death". Euronews. May 2, 2011.  
  210. **^** "With wary eye, Syrian rebels welcome Islamists into their ranks". _The Times of Israel_. October 25, 2012.  
  211. **^** "Assad doubts existence of al-Qaeda". _USA Today_. Retrieved  May 15, 2014. 
  212. **^** Berezow, Alex (September 30, 2013). "Al-Qaeda Goes Global". RealClearWorld. Retrieved November 10, 2013. 
  213. **^** Neumann, Peter (2014). "Suspects into Collaborators". _London Review of Books_. **36** (7): 19–21. Retrieved  April 6, 2014. 
  214. **^** "Opinion: Syria plunging Mideast into sectarian war?". CNN. September 4, 2013.  
  215. **^** Cowell, Alan. "Syria – Uprising and Civil War". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  216. **^** "Syria: On the frontline with the Free Syrian Army in Aleppo". FRANCE 24. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  217. **^** "Al Nusra Front, an al Qaeda branch, and the Free Syrian Army jointly seize border crossing". _The Washington Times_. September 30, 2013. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  218. **^** "Al-Qaeda disavows ISIS militants in Syria". BBC News. February 3, 2014.  
  219. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Gulf allies and ‘Army of Conquest’". _Al-Ahram Weekly_. May 28, 2015.
  220. **^** Erin Banco (April 11, 2015). "Jabhat Al-Nusra And ISIS Alliance Could Spread Beyond Damascus". _International Business Times_.  
  221. **^** "How would a deal between al-Qaeda and Isil change Syria's civil war?". _The Daily Telegraph_. November 14, 2014
  222. **^** "ISIS joins other rebels to thwart Syria regime push near Lebanon". _The Sacramento Bee_. McClatchy DC. March 4, 2014.  
  223. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Kim Sengupta (May 12, 2015). "Turkey and Saudi Arabia alarm the West by backing Islamist extremists the Americans had bombed in Syria". _The Independent_.  
  224. **^** "Syria's al-Qaeda offshoot Nusra stages suicide bombing in Aleppo: monitor". Reuters. July 6, 2015.
  225. **^** "Russia launches media offensive on Syria bombing". _BBC News_. October 1, 2015.  
  226. **^** "Who is Russia bombing in Syria? The militant groups determined to fight to the death". _The Independent_. October 1, 2015.  
  227. **^** Moore, Jack (January 25, 2016). "ISIS ideologue calls al-Qaeda the 'Jews of jihad' as rivalry continues". _Newsweek_. Retrieved  March 2, 2016. 
  228. **^** "India security alert after Al Qaeda calls for jihad in subcontinent". _India Gazette_. September 4, 2014. Retrieved  September 8, 2014. 
  229. **^** "Indian Muslims Reject al-Qaida call for Jihad". _India Gazette_. September 6, 2014. Retrieved  September 8, 2014. 
  230. **^** "Al Qaeda launches India wing: `Pakistan Army, ISI targeting India to hit Nawaz Sharif '". _Zee News_. Retrieved  October 25, 2014. 
  231. **^** "al-Qaeda's wing in India: Pakistan's ISI exposed over threatening video". _news.oneindia.in_. Retrieved  October 25, 2014. 
  232. **^** "Danger from ISIS and Al Qaeda: What India should do". _news.oneindia.in_. Retrieved  October 25, 2014. 
  233. **^** Eichenwald, Kurt (December 10, 2001). "A Nation Challenged: The Money; Terror Money Hard to Block, Officials Find". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  May 4, 2011. 
  234. **^** Wright 2006, p. 174.
  235. **^** Jansen 1997.
  236. **^** Tom Leonard (December 25, 2009). "Osama bin Laden came within minutes of killing Bill Clinton". _The Daily Telegraph_. London. Archived from the original on December 25, 2009. Retrieved  December 25, 2009. 
  237. **^** "Jihad Against Jews and Crusaders". February 23, 1998. Retrieved  June 16, 2010. 
  238. **^** "Bin Laden says he wasn't behind attacks". CNN. September 17, 2001. Archived from the original on July 5, 2006. Retrieved  July 6, 2006. 
  239. **^** Esposito 2002, p. 22.
  240. **^** Hamid Miir 'Osama claims he has nukes: If U.S. uses N-arms it will get the same response' "Dawn: the Internet Edition" November 10, 2001
  241. **^** Tremlett, Giles (September 9, 2002). "Al-Qaida leaders say nuclear power stations were original targets". _The Guardian_. UK. Archived from the original on January 22, 2007. Retrieved  January 11, 2007. 
  242. **^** "Al Qaeda Scaled Back 10-Plane Plot". _The Washington Post_. June 17, 2004. Retrieved  January 11, 2007. 
  243. **^** Australian Government. "Listing of Terrorist Organisations". Archived from the original on February 4, 2014. Retrieved July 3, 2006. 
  244. **^** Alfredo Sirkis. "O Brasil e o terrorismo internacional". Retrieved February 22, 2014. 
  245. **^** Public Safety and Emergency Preparedness Canada. "Entities list". Archived from the original on November 19, 2006. Retrieved July 3, 2006. 
  246. **^** Commission of the European Communities (October 20, 2004). "Communication from the Commission to the Council and the European Parliament". Archived from the original (DOC) on June 14, 2007. Retrieved June 11, 2007. 
  247. **^** "La France face au terrorisme" (PDF) (in French). Secrétariat général de la défense nationale (France). Archived from the original (PDF) on August 7, 2011. Retrieved August 6, 2009. 
  248. **^** "The Hindu : Centre bans Al-Qaeda". Hinduonnet.com. April 9, 2002. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  249. **^** Moody, John (12 June 2007). "Iran Wants to Talk With U.S.; Just Not About Nukes". _Fox News_. Retrieved  2017-07-31. 
  250. **^** "Criminal Justice (Terrorist Offences) Act 2005". _2005_. Department of Justice Ireland. Archived from the original on May 27, 2014. Retrieved  May 26, 2014. 
  251. **^** "Summary of indictments against Al-Qaeda terrorists in Samaria". Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs. March 21, 2006. Retrieved  May 4, 2011. 
  252. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on August 10, 2014. Retrieved  August 9, 2014. 
  253. **^** Diplomatic Bluebook (2002). "B. Terrorist Attacks in the United States and the Fight Against Terrorism" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on June 14, 2007. Retrieved June 11, 2007. 
  254. **^** "Fight against terrorism and extremism in Kazakhstan". Mfa.gov.kz. Archived from the original on November 14, 2015. Retrieved  November 23, 2015. 
  255. **^** NATO. "Press Conference with NATO Secretary General, Lord Robertson". Archived from the original on October 26, 2006. Retrieved October 23, 2006. 
  256. **^** NATO Library (2005). "AL QAEDA" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on June 14, 2007. Retrieved June 11, 2007. 
  257. **^** General Intelligence and Security Service. "Annual Report 2004" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on June 14, 2007. Retrieved June 11, 2007. 
  258. **^** New Zealand Government. "New Zealand's designated terrorist individuals and organisations". Archived from the original on October 7, 2008. Retrieved October 7, 2008. 
  259. **^** "Russia Outlaws 17 Terror Groups; Hamas, Hezbollah Not Included". Archived from the original on November 14, 2006.  
  260. **^** Korean Foreign Ministry (August 14, 2007). "Seoul confirms release of two Korean hostages in Afghanistan". Archived from the original on December 15, 2007. Retrieved September 16, 2007. 
  261. **^** Ministry for Foreign Affairs Sweden (March–June 2006). "Radical Islamist Movements in the Middle East" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on June 14, 2007. Retrieved June 11, 2007. 
  262. **^** "Report on counter-terrorism submitted by Switzerland to the Security Council Committee established pursuant to resolution 1373 (2001)" (PDF). December 20, 2001. Archived from the original (PDF) on June 9, 2007. Retrieved June 11, 2007. 
  263. **^** "Terörle Mücadele ve Harekat Dairesi Başkanlığı". Archived from the original on January 14, 2013. Retrieved  April 12, 2016. 
  264. **^** "Proscribed terrorist groups or organisations" (PDF). Home Office. July 15, 2016. Retrieved September 27, 2016. 
  265. **^** "Security Council Resolutions Related to the Work of the Committee Established Pursuant to Resolution 1267 (1999) Concerning Al-Qaida and the Taliban and Associated Individuals and Entities". United Nations Security Council. Archived from the original on January 12, 2007. Retrieved  January 9, 2007. 
  266. **^** United States Department of State. "Foreign Terrorist Organizations (FTOs)". Archived from the original on June 28, 2006. Retrieved July 3, 2006. 
  267. **^** "US Jets Pound Targets Around Kabul". _The Portsmouth Herald_. October 15, 2001. Retrieved  July 25, 2012. 
  268. **^** "Blair to Taliban: Surrender bin Laden or surrender power". Canadian Broadcasting Corporation. October 3, 2001. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  269. **^** "U.S. Releases Videotape of Osama Bin Laden". December 13, 2001. Archived from the original on June 25, 2006. Retrieved  July 4, 2006. 
  270. **^** Morris, Steven (December 15, 2001). "US urged to detail origin of tape". _The Guardian_. UK. Retrieved  July 11, 2006. 
  271. **^** "Transcript of Osama bin Laden videotape". Archived from the original on February 2, 2007.  
  272. **^** "National Commission on Terrorist Attacks Upon the United States". September 20, 2004. Archived from the original on April 27, 2006. Retrieved  April 27, 2006. 
  273. **^** "Full transcript of bin Ladin's speech". Al Jazeera. November 1, 2004. Archived from the original on July 11, 2006. Retrieved  July 12, 2006. 
  274. **^** Shane, Scott (June 22, 2008). "Inside the interrogation of a 9/11 mastermind". _The New York Times_. pp.  A1, A12–A13. Retrieved September 5, 2009. 
  275. **^** Paul Rogers (August 8, 2013). "Al-Qaida – A Multiform Idea". Oxford Research Group. Retrieved November 10, 2013. 
  276. **^** Black, Ian; Norton-Taylor, Richard (September 18, 2009). "Al-Qaida weakened by global recruitment woes". _The Guardian Weekly_. **181** (14). London. pp.  1–2. Retrieved September 19, 2009. 
  277. **^**
    * Trofimov, Yaroslav (August 15, 2009). "Islamic rebels gain strength in the Sahara". _The Wall Street Journal_. **254** (39). p.  A9. Retrieved September 15, 2009. 
    * Trofimov, Yaroslav (August 17, 2009). "Islamic rebels gain strength in the Sahara". _The Wall Street Journal Europe_. **27** (136). p.  12. 
    * Trofimov, Yaroslav (August 18, 2009). "Islamic rebels gain in the Sahara". _The Wall Street Journal Asia_. **33** (245). p.  12. 
  278. **^** Riedel 2008, p. 126.
  279. **^** Baba Ahmed and Jamey Keaten, Associated Press (January 12, 2013) Hundreds of French troops drive back Mali rebels. _USA Today_. Retrieved August 4, 2013
  280. **^** Ansar al Dine. Google Books. Retrieved August 4, 2013
  281. **^** Meo, Nick (October 31, 2011). "Libya: revolutionaries turn on each other as fears grow for law and order". _The Daily Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  282. **^** "Libyans storm Ansar Al-Shariah compound in backlash after attack on US Consulate". Fox News Channel. September 21, 2012. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  283. **^** "Sources: 3 al Qaeda operatives took part in Benghazi attack". CNN. May 4, 2013. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  284. **^** "U.S. forces raid terror targets in Libya, Somalia". CNN. October 6, 2013. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  285. **^** "Last words of a terrorist | The Observer". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  November 10, 2013. 
  286. **^** View all comments that have been posted about this article. "Washington Post – Al-Qaeda's Hand in Istanbul Plot". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  287. **^** "Msn News – Bin Laden allegedly planned attack in Turkey – Stymied by tight security at U.S. bases, militants switched targets". MSNBC. December 17, 2003. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  288. **^**
    * Gardham, Duncan (September 8, 2009). "Gang is brought to justice by most complex operation since the war". _The Daily Telegraph_. London. p.  2. Retrieved September 15, 2009. 
    * Gardham, Duncan (September 16, 2009). "Complex operation brings gang to justice". _The Weekly Telegraph_. Australian edition, issue 947. p.  9. 
  289. **^** Milmo, Cahal (September 8, 2009). "Police watched the plot unfold, then pounced". _The Independent_. London. pp.  2–4. Retrieved September 15, 2009. 
  290. **^** Press, Associated (September 7, 2009). "UK court convicts 3 of plot to blow up airliners". _The Jerusalem Post_. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. Retrieved  May 8, 2011. 
  291. **^** Sandford, Daniel (September 7, 2009). "UK | Airline plot: Al-Qaeda connection". BBC News. Retrieved March 22, 2010. 
  292. **^** Elder, Miriam (October 3, 2012). "Russia accuses al-Qaida of 'forest jihad' in Europe". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  November 6, 2012. 
  293. **^** Weir, Shelagh (July–September 1997). "A Clash of Fundamentalisms: Wahhabism in Yemen". Middle East Report (204). Middle East Research and Information Project. Retrieved January 19, 2009. ; cited in Burke, Jason (2003). _Al-Qaeda: Casting a Shadow of Terror_. New York: I.B. Tauris. pp.  128–29. ISBN 1-85043-396-8. 
  294. **^** "Yemen: The Next Front Line Against al Qaeda". CBS News. October 30, 2010
  295. **^** Riedel 2008, p. 100.
  296. **^** See the following works cited in Riedel 2008, p. 101:
    * Hafez 2007, pp. 97–98
    * Al-Shishani, Murad Batal (November 17, 2005). "Al-Zarqawi's Rise to Power: Analyzing Tactics and Targets". _Jamestown Foundation Terrorism Monitor_. **3** (22).  
  297. **^** Streatfeild, Dominic (January 7, 2011). "How the US let al-Qaida get its hands on an Iraqi weapons factory". _The Guardian_. UK. Archived from the original on January 7, 2011. Retrieved  January 7, 2011. 
  298. **^** "CSI Urges Obama to Protect Iraq's Endangered Christian Community". PR Newswire. November 1, 2010. Retrieved  July 6, 2014. 
  299. **^** "Iraqi Christians Mourn 58 Dead in Church Siege". CBS News. November 1, 2010.
  300. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gunaratna 2002, p. 150.
  301. **^** "'Army of Conquest' rebel alliance pressures Syria regime". Yahoo News. April 28, 2015.
  302. **^** Terrorism in India and the Global Jihad Archived November 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine., Brookings Institution, November 30, 2008
  303. **^** Al Qaeda: Profile and Threat Assessment, Congressional Research Service, February 10, 2005
  304. **^** United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees (July 2, 2008). "Freedom in the World 2008 – Kashmir Pakistan, 2 July 2008". Unhcr.org. Archived from the original on May 12, 2011. Retrieved May 8, 2011. 
  305. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Kashmir Militant Extremists Archived February 14, 2007, at the Wayback Machine., Council on Foreign Relations, July 9, 2009
  306. **^** Osama bin Laden "letter to the American people", GlobalSecurity.org, November 20, 2002
  307. **^** Full text: bin Laden's 'letter to America', _The Guardian_ , November 24, 2002
  308. **^** "Osama men plan to target Delhi: Kathmandu receives threat]". _Dawn_. November 10, 2001. Archived from the original on April 18, 2002.  
  309. **^** Analysis: Is al-Qaeda in Kashmir?, BBC, June 13, 2002
  310. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rumsfeld offers US technology to guard Kashmir border, The Sydney Morning Herald, June 14, 2002
  311. **^** Al Qaeda thriving in Pakistani Kashmir, The Christian Science Monitor, July 2, 2002
  312. **^** SAS joins Kashmir hunt for bin Laden, The Telegraph, February 23, 2002
  313. **^** Al-Qaeda terror trial: Rangzieb Ahmed was highest ranking al-Qaeda operative in Britain, The Telegraph. December 18, 2008
  314. **^** Bin Laden's finger on Kashmir trigger?, CNN, June 12, 2002
  315. **^** Taliban, al-Qaeda linked to Kashmir, USA Today, May 29, 2002
  316. **^** Al Qaeda claim of Kashmir link worries India, The New York Times,2006-07-13
  317. **^** No Al Qaeda presence in Kashmir: Army, The Hindu,2007-06-18
  318. **^** Ilyas Kashmiri had planned to attack COAS, The News International, September 18, 2009 [ _dead link_ ]
  319. **^** Waziristan new battlefield for Kashmiri militants [ _dead link_ ], The News International, November 24, 2008
  320. **^** Kashmiri militants move to Waziristan, open training camps The Indian Express, November 26, 2008
  321. **^** "Army of Madinah in Kashmir" (PDF). _nefafoundation.org_. Nine Eleven Finding Answers Foundation. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 3, 2012. Retrieved June 6, 2017. 
  322. **^** How radical Islam turned a schoolboy into a terrorist, _The Times_ , November 7, 2006
  323. **^** The Long Hunt for Osama, The Atlantic, October 2004
  324. **^** Bruce Riedel. "Al Qaeda Strikes Back". _The Brookings Institution_. Archived from the original on June 5, 2011. Retrieved  April 12, 2016. 
  325. **^** Al-Qaeda involved in Indian plane hijack plot, _The Hindu_ , September 18, 2006
  326. **^** Osama threw lavish party for Azhar after hijack, _The Indian Express_ , September 18, 2006
  327. **^** Rashid Rauf: profile of a terror mastermind, _The Daily Telegraph', November 22, 2008_
  328. **^** LeT, which is based at Muridke, near Lahore in Pakistan, has networks throughout India and its leadership has close links with core al-Qaeda figures living in Pakistan Focus on Westerners suggests al-Qaeda was pulling strings, _The Times_ , November 28, 2008
  329. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lashkar-e-Taiba Served as Gateway for Western Converts Turning to Jihad, _The Wall Street Journal_ , December 4, 2008
  330. **^** "Lashkar-e-Taiba threat revived after Chicago arrest". _Dawn_. November 20, 2009. Archived from the original on November 23, 2009.  
  331. **^** INTERVIEW-French magistrate details Lashkar's global role, Reuters, November 13, 2009
  332. **^** 'Azzam the American' releases video focusing on Pakistan, CNN, October 4, 2008
  333. **^** "US drones killed two terrorist leaders in Pak". _Dawn_. September 17, 2009. Archived from the original on September 23, 2009.  
  334. **^** Al Qaeda's American Mole Archived September 24, 2011, at the Wayback Machine., Brookings Institution, December 15, 2009
  335. **^** Ilyas Kashmiri alive, lays out future terror strategy, _Daily Times_ , October 15, 2009
  336. **^** United States of America vs Tahawwur Hussain Rana, _Chicago Tribune_ Archived January 7, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  337. **^** "US charges Ilyas Kashmiri in Danish newspaper plot". _Dawn_. January 15, 2010. Archived from the original on January 18, 2010.  
  338. **^** US seeks Harkat chief for Khost CIA attack Archived January 9, 2010, at the National and University Library of Iceland, The News International, January 6, 2010
  339. **^** Indian hijack plot caused new UK terror alert, _The Times_ , January 24, 2010
  340. **^** "Al Qaeda could provoke new India-Pakistan war: Gates". _Dawn_. January 20, 2010. Archived from the original on January 23, 2010.  
  341. **^** Thomas, Timothy (February 14, 2007). "Al Qaeda and the Internet: The Danger of Cyberplanning" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on March 26, 2003. 
  342. **^** Scheuer, Michael (January 2008). "Bin Laden Identifies Saudi Arabia as the Enemy of Mujahideen Unity". _Terrorism Focus_. Jamestown Foundation. Archived from the original on June 25, 2007.  
  343. **^** Whitlock, Craig (August 8, 2005). "Briton Used Internet As His Bully Pulpit". _The Washington Post_. p.  A1. Retrieved September 4, 2009. 
  344. **^** "Babar Ahmad Indicted on Terrorism Charges". United States Attorney's Office District of Connecticut. October 6, 2004. Archived from the original on May 26, 2006. Retrieved  May 29, 2006. 
  345. **^** "British cyber-jihadist Babar Ahmad jailed in US". BBC News. Retrieved  July 6, 2015. 
  346. **^** Schmitt, Eric; Schmidt, Michael S. (September 29, 2013). "Qaeda Plot Leak Has Undermined U.S. Intelligence". _The New York Times_.  
  347. **^** Gaynor, Tim (January 13, 2010). "Al Qaeda linked to rogue aviation network". Reuters. Retrieved May 8, 2011. 
  348. **^** Cook, Robin (July 8, 2005). "The struggle against terrorism cannot be won by military means". _The Guardian_. UK. Archived from the original on July 10, 2005. Retrieved  July 8, 2005. 
  349. **^** Akram, Munir (January 19, 2008). "Pakistan, Terrorism and Drugs". Opinion. _The New York Times_. Retrieved  October 17, 2009. 
  350. **^** Coll 2005, pp. 145–46, 155–56.
  351. **^** Bergen, Peter. "Bergen: Bin Laden, CIA links hogwash". CNN. Archived from the original on August 21, 2006. Retrieved August 15, 2006. 
  352. **^** Burke, Jason (2004) [2003]. _Al-Qaeda: The True Story of Radical Islam_ (revised ed.). London: Penguin. p.  59. 
  353. **^** Ritter, Karl (April 20, 2012). "Breivik Studied al-Qaeda Attacks". _Time_. Archived from the original on May 25, 2012. Retrieved  May 8, 2012. 
  354. **^** "Norway: Militant Studied Al Qaeda". _The New York Times_. April 20, 2012. Retrieved  May 8, 2012. 
  355. **^** "Another battle with Islam's 'true believers '". _The Globe and Mail_.  
  356. **^** "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on August 2, 2014. Retrieved November 17, 2015. 
  357. **^** Mohamad Jebara More Mohamad Jebara. "Imam Mohamad Jebara: Fruits of the tree of extremism". _Ottawa Citizen_.  
  358. **^** Bergen & Cruickshank 2008; Wright 2008. Quotes taken from Riedel 2008, pp. 106–07 and Bergen & Cruickshank 2008.
  359. **^** "Libya releases scores of prisoners". English.aljazeera.net. April 9, 2008. Archived from the original on July 18, 2008. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  360. **^** Bergen & Cruickshank 2008.
  361. **^** "Taking Stock of the War on Terror". Realclearpolitics.com. May 22, 2008. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  362. **^** "December 18, 2007 Poll: Most Saudis oppose al Qaeda". CNN. December 18, 2007. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  363. **^** "New jihad code threatens al Qaeda", Nic Robertson and Paul Cruickshank, CNN, November 10, 2009

##  Further reading

Main article: List of books about al-Qaeda

Bibliography

  * Mura, Andrea (2015). _The Symbolic Scenarios of Islamism: A Study in Islamic Political Thought_. London: Routledge.  
  * Al-Bahri, Nasser (2013). _Guarding bin Laden: My Life in Al-Qaeda_. London: Thin Man Press. ISBN 978-0-9562473-6-0.  
  * Atran, Scott (2010). _Talking to the Enemy: Faith, Brotherhood, and the (un)making of Terrorists_. New York: Ecco Press. ISBN 978-0-06-134490-9.  
  * Atwan, Abdel Bari (2006). _The Secret History of al Qaeda_. Berkeley, CA: University of California Press. ISBN 978-0-520-24974-5.  
  * Atwan, Abdel Bari (2012). _After Bin Laden: Al-Qaeda, The Next Generation_. London/New York: Saqi Books (London)/ New Press (New York). ISBN 9780863564192. ISBN 978-1595588999.  
  * Basile, Mark (May 2004). "Going to the Source: Why Al Qaeda's Financial Network Is Likely to Withstand the Current War on Terrorist Financing". _Studies in Conflict and Terrorism_. **27** (3): 169–185. doi:10.1080/10576100490438237.  
  * Benjamin, Daniel; Simon, Steven (2002). _The Age of Sacred Terror_ (1st ed.). New York: Random House. ISBN 0-375-50859-7.  
  * Bergen, Peter (2001). _Holy War, Inc.: Inside the Secret World of Osama bin Laden_ (1st ed.). New York: Free Press. ISBN 0-7432-3495-2.  
  * Bergen, Peter (2006). _The Osama bin Laden I Know: An Oral History of al Qaeda's Leader_ (2nd ed.). New York: Free Press. ISBN 0-7432-7892-5.  
  * Bergen, Peter; Cruickshank, Paul (June 11, 2008). "The Unraveling: The jihadist revolt against bin Laden". _The New Republic_. **238** (10). pp.  16–21. Retrieved May 4, 2011. 
  * Bergen, Peter (2011). _The Longest War: The Enduring Conflict between America and al-Qaeda_. New York: Free Press. ISBN 978-0-7432-7893-5.  
  * Bin Laden, Osama (2005). Lawrence, Bruce, ed. _Messages to the World: The Statements of Osama bin Laden_. London: Verso. ISBN 1-84467-045-7.  
  * Cassidy, Robert M. (2006). _Counterinsurgency and the Global War on Terror: Military Culture and Irregular War_. Westport, CT: Praeger Security International. ISBN 0-275-98990-9.  
  * Coll, Steve (2005). _Ghost Wars: The Secret History of the CIA, Afghanistan, and Bin Laden, from the Soviet Invasion to September  10, 2001_ (2nd ed.). New York: Penguin Books. ISBN 0-14-303466-9. 
  * Esposito, John L. (2002). _Unholy War: Terror in the Name of Islam_. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-515435-5.  
  * Gunaratna, Rohan (2002). _Inside Al Qaeda_ (1st ed.). London: C. Hurst  & Co. ISBN 1-85065-671-1. 
  * Hafez, Mohammed M. (March 2007). "Martyrdom Mythology in Iraq: How Jihadists Frame Suicide Terrorism in Videos and Biographies". _Terrorism and Political Violence_. **19** (1): 95–115. doi:10.1080/09546550601054873.  
  * Hoffman, Bruce (2002). "The Emergence of the New Terrorism". In Tan, Andrew; Ramakrishna, Kumar. _The New Terrorism: Anatomy, Trends, and Counter-Strategies_. Singapore: Eastern Universities Press. pp.  30–49. ISBN 981-210-210-8. 
  * Jansen, Johannes J.G. (1997). _The Dual Nature of Islamic Fundamentalism_. Ithaca, NY: Cornell University Press. ISBN 0-8014-3338-X.  
  * McGeary, Johanna (February 19, 2001). "A Traitor's Tale". _Time_. **157** (7). pp.  36–37. Retrieved September 15, 2009. 
  * Napoleoni, Loretta (2003). _Modern Jihad: Tracing the Dollars Behind the Terror Networks_. London: Pluto Press. ISBN 0-7453-2117-8.  
  * Qutb, Sayyid (2003). _Milestones_. Chicago: Kazi Publications. ISBN 0-911119-42-6.  
  * Rashid, Ahmed (2002) [2000]. _Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia_. New Haven: Yale University Press. ISBN 1-86064-830-4.  
  * Reeve, Simon (1999). _The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama Bin Laden and the Future of Terrorism_. Boston: Northeastern University Press. ISBN 1-55553-407-4.  
  * Riedel, Bruce (2008). _The Search for al Qaeda: Its Leadership, Ideology, and Future_. Washington, D.C.: Brookings Institution Press. ISBN 978-0-8157-7414-3.  
  * Sageman, Marc (2004). _Understanding Terror Networks_. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press. ISBN 0-8122-3808-7.  
  * Schmid, Alex P. _Al Qaeda’s "Single Narrative" and Attempts to Develop Counter-Narratives_ (International Centre for Counter-Terrorism, 2014)
  * Trofimov, Yaroslav (2006). _Faith at War: A Journey On the Frontlines of Islam, From Baghdad to Timbuktu_. New York: Picador. ISBN 978-0-8050-7754-4.  
  * Wechsler, William F. (2001). "Strangling The Hydra: Targeting Al Qaeda's Finances". In Hoge, James; Rose, Gideon. _How Did This Happen? Terrorism and the New War_. New York: PublicAffairs. pp.  129–143. ISBN 1-58648-130-4. 
  * Wright, Lawrence (2006). _The Looming Tower: Al-Qaeda and the Road to 9/11_. New York: Knopf. ISBN 0-375-41486-X.  
  * Wright, Lawrence (June 2, 2008). "The Rebellion Within". _The New Yorker_. **84** (16). pp.  36–53. Retrieved September 15, 2009. 

Reviews

  * Akacem, Mohammed (August 2005). "Review: Modern Jihad: Tracing the Dollars behind the Terror Networks". _International Journal of Middle East Studies_. **37** (3): 444–445. doi:10.1017/S0020743805362143.  
  * Bale, Jeffrey M. (October 2006). "Deciphering Islamism and Terrorism". _Middle East Journal_. **60** (4): 777–788.  
  * Shaffer, R (2015). "The Terrorism, Ideology, and Transformations of Al-Qaeda". _Terrorism and Political Violence_. **27** (3): 581–590. doi:10.1080/09546553.2015.1055968.  

Government reports

  * Kronstadt, K. Allen; Katzman, Kenneth (November 2008). "Islamist Militancy in the Pakistan-Afghanistan Border Region and U.S. Policy" (PDF). U.S. Congressional Research Service. 
  * Subcommittee on Terrorism, Nonproliferation, and Trade of the Committee on Foreign Affairs, House of Representatives (July 18, 2013). "Global Al-Qaeda: Affiliates, Objectives, and Future Challenges" (PDF). United States Government Printing Office. Archived from the original on November 22, 2013. CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link)
  * White House (September 2003). "Progress Report on the Global War on Terrorism". United States Department of State. Archived from the original on September 22, 2003. 

## External links

Find more about **Al-Qaeda** at Wikipedia's sister projects

  * Media from Wikimedia Commons
  * News from Wikinews
  * Quotations from Wikiquote

  * "Al Qaeda Training Manual". U.S. Dept. of Justice. Archived from the original on March 31, 2005. 
  * Al-Qaeda in Oxford Islamic Studies Online
  * Al-Qaeda, Counter Extremism Project profile
  * 17 de-classified documents captured during the Abbottabad raid and released to the Combating Terrorism Center
  * "Bin Laden documents at a glance". Archived from the original on May 11, 2012. 

Media

  * Peter Taylor. (2007). "War on the West". _Age of Terror_ , No. 4, series 1. BBC.
  * Investigating Al-Qaeda, BBC News
  * Adam Curtis (2004). _The Power of Nightmares_. BBC.  
  * "Al Qaeda's New Front" from _PBS Frontline_ , January 2005
  * "Inside al Qaeda" – video report by National Geographic
  * "Al-Qaida collected news and commentary". _The Guardian_.  
  * "al-Qaeda collected news and commentary". _The New York Times_.  

  * v
  * t
  * e

al-Qaeda  
  
---  
Leadership |

  * Ayman al-Zawahiri
  * Saif al-Adel
  * Abdullah Ahmed Abdullah
  * Hamza bin Laden
  * Abdelmalek Droukdel
  * Mokhtar Belmokhtar
  * Qasim al-Raymi
  * Abu Mohammad al-Julani
  * Ahmad Umar
  * Asim Umar
  * Ezedin Abdel Aziz Khalil

  
  
Former  
leadership |

  * Osama bin Laden (killed)
  * Abu Yahya al-Libi (killed)
  * Khalid Sheikh Mohammed (captured)
  * Mamdouh Mahmud Salim (captured)
  * Anwar al-Awlaki (killed)
  * Samir Khan (killed)
  * Younis al-Mauritani (captured)
  * Mohammed Atef (killed)
  * Fazul Abdullah Mohammed (killed)
  * Abu Faraj al-Libbi (captured)
  * Atiyah Abd al-Rahman (killed)
  * Abu Laith al-Libi (killed)
  * Fahd al-Quso (killed)
  * Ilyas Kashmiri (killed)
  * Abu Hamza Rabia (killed)
  * Haitham al-Yemeni (killed)
  * Abdullah Said al Libi (killed)
  * Abu Sulayman Al-Jazairi (killed)
  * Saleh al-Somali (killed)
  * Abu Ubaidah al-Masri (died)
  * Saad bin Laden (killed)
  * Fahid Mohammed Ally Msalam (killed)
  * Sheikh Ahmed Salim Swedan (killed)
  * Ahmed Mohammed Hamed Ali (killed)
  * Mohammad Hasan Khalil al-Hakim (killed)
  * Mushin Musa Matwalli Atwah (killed)
  * Midhat Mursi (killed)
  * Saeed al-Masri (killed)
  * Hassan Ghul (killed)
  * Abu Ubaidah al-Banshiri (died)
  * Walid bin Attash (captured)
  * Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri (captured)
  * Mustafa Setmariam Nasar (captured)
  * Qaed Salim Sinan al-Harethi (killed)
  * Khalid Habib (killed)
  * Abdul Hadi al Iraqi (captured)
  * Mustafa Mohamed Fadhil (killed)
  * Mohamed Abul-Khair (killed)
  * Mahfouz Ould al-Walid (left)
  * Sulaiman Abu Ghaith (captured)
  * Abu Anas al-Libi (captured and died)
  * Abu Musab al-Zarqawi (killed)
  * Abu Ayyub al-Masri (killed)
  * Abu Omar al-Baghdadi (killed)
  * Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi (expelled)
  * Abu-Zaid al Kuwaiti (killed)
  * Omar al-Faruq (killed)
  * Ahmed Abdi Godane (killed)
  * Adnan Gulshair el Shukrijumah (killed)
  * Adam Yahiye Gadahn (killed)
  * Harith bin Ghazi al-Nadhari (killed)
  * Ibrahim Sulayman Muhammad Arbaysh (killed)
  * Nasser bin Ali al-Ansi (killed)
  * Nasir al-Wuhayshi (killed)
  * Muhsin al-Fadhli (killed)
  * Abu Khalil al-Madani (killed)
  * Abu Khayr al-Masri (killed)

  
  
Timeline  
of attacks |

  * 1998 United States embassy bombings
  * 2000 USS _Cole_ bombing
  * 2001 September 11 attacks
  * 2002 Bali bombings
  * 2007 Algiers bombings
  * 2008 Islamabad Danish embassy bombing
  * 2008 Islamabad Marriott Hotel bombing
  * 2012 Benghazi attack
  * 2013 In Amenas hostage crisis
  * 2013 Westgate shopping mall attack
  * 2015 Charlie Hebdo shooting
  * 2015 Garissa University College attack
  * 2015 Bamako hotel attack
  * 2016 Ouagadougou attacks
  * 2016 Grand-Bassam shootings
  * 2016 Bamako attack

  
  
Wars |

  * Soviet–Afghan War
  * Afghan Civil War (1989–92)
  * Afghan Civil War (1992–96)
  * Bosnian War
    * Bosnian Al-Qaeda
  * First Chechen War
  * Afghan Civil War (1996–2001)
  * Second Chechen War
  * War in Afghanistan (2001–2014)
  * Iraq War
  * Somali Civil War
  * War in North-West Pakistan (Drone strikes)
  * Insurgency in the Maghreb (2002–present)
  * War in Afghanistan (2015–present)
  * Syrian Civil War
  * Yemeni Civil War
    * al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen
    * Houthi insurgency in Yemen

  
  
Affiliates |

  * al-Shabaab (Somalia)
  * al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (Yemen)
  * al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb (North Africa)
  * Egyptian Islamic Jihad (Egypt)
  * al-Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent (Indian Subcontinent)
  * Tahrir al-Sham (Syria)

  
  
Charity organizations |

  * Benevolence International Foundation
  * al-Haramain Foundation

  
  
Media |

  * Al Qaeda Handbook
  * Al Neda
  * As-Sahab
  * Fatawā of Osama bin Laden
  * _Inspire_
  * _Al-Khansaa_
  * Kuala Lumpur al-Qaeda Summit
  * _Management of Savagery_
  * _Voice of Jihad_
  * Qaedat al-Jihad
  * Global Islamic Media Front

  
  
Video and audio |

  * Videos and audio recordings of Osama bin Laden
  * Videos and audio recordings of Ayman al-Zawahiri
  * USS _Cole_ bombing

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Osama bin Laden  
  
---  
Background |

  * Childhood, education, and personal life
  * Militant activity
  * Beliefs and ideology
  * Criticism
  * Search
  * Khartoum compound
  * Abbottabad compound
  * Death
    * reactions
    * code name controversy
    * conspiracy theories

  
  
Family |

  * Mohammed bin Awad bin Laden (father)
  * Hamida al-Attas (mother)
  * Najwa Ghanem (first wife)
  * Abdallah bin Laden (son)
  * Hamza bin Laden (son)
  * Saad bin Laden (son)
  * Omar bin Laden (son)

  
  
Work |

  * al-Qaeda
  * Wadi al Aqiq
  * _Messages to the World_
  * _Fatawā_
  * 2004 video
  * 19 January 2006 tape
  * 7 September 2007 video
  * 11 September 2007 video
  * 20 September 2007 tape ( _more_ )

  
  
In media |

  * In popular culture
  * _Growing Up bin Laden_
  * _Holy War, Inc._
  * _The Looming Tower_
  * _No Easy Day_
  * _Where in the World Is Osama Bin Laden?_
  * _Zero Dark Thirty_
  * Interviews

  
  
Related |

  * Allegations of support system in Pakistan for Osama bin Laden
  * Bodyguard
  * Issue Station
  * September 11 attacks
  * Allegations of CIA assistance to Osama bin Laden
  * False sightings

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Islamism  
  
---  
  
| Outline |

  * Islamism
  * Qutbism
  * Salafism
    * Salafi jihadism
  * Shia Islamism

  
  
---|---  
Concepts |

  * Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists
  * Islamic democracy
  * Islamic socialism
  * Islamic state
    * Islamic monarchy
    * Islamic republic
  * Islamistan
  * Islamization
    * of knowledge
  * Pan-Islamism
  * Post-Islamism
  * Sharia
  * _Shura_
  * Turkish model
  * Two-nation theory
  * Ummah

  
  
Movements |

| Socio-  
political |

  * Deobandi
  * Hizb ut-Tahrir
    * in Britain
    * in Central Asia
  * Islamic Defenders Front
  * Jamaat-e-Islami
  * Millî Görüş
  * Muslim Brotherhood
    * in Egypt
    * in Syria

  
  
---|---  
Political  
Party |

  * Freedom and Justice Party
  * Green Algeria Alliance
  * Hadas
  * Hezbollah
  * Islamic Salvation Front
  * Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan
  * Jamiat-e Islami
  * Justice and Construction Party
  * Justice and Development Party (Morocco)
  * National Congress
  * National Iraqi Alliance
  * Malaysian Islamic Party
  * Prosperous Justice Party
  * Al Wefaq
  * Welfare Party

  
  
Related |

  * Ennahda Movement
  * Gülen movement
  * Islamic Modernism
  * Justice and Development Party (Turkey)

  
  
Theorists and  
political leaders

|

  * Muhammad Abduh
  * Jamāl al-Dīn al-Afghānī
  * Qazi Hussain Ahmad
  * Muhammad Asad
  * Hasan al-Banna
  * Necmettin Erbakan
  * Muammar Gaddafi
  * Rached Ghannouchi
  * Safwat Hegazi
  * Muhammad Iqbal
  * Alija Izetbegović
  * Ali Khamenei
  * Ruhollah Khomeini
  * Abul Ala Maududi
  * Taqi al-Din al-Nabhani
  * Yusuf al-Qaradawi
  * Sayyid Qutb
  * Tariq Ramadan
  * Ata Abu Rashta
  * Rashid Rida
  * Navvab Safavi
  * Ali Shariati
  * Haji Shariatullah
  * Hassan al-Turabi
  * Ahmad Yassin
  * Zia-ul-Haq

  
  
|

Salafi movement  
  
---  
  
| Movements |

| Scholastic |

  * Ahl-i Hadith
  * Madkhalism
  * Sahwa movement
  * Wahhabism

  
  
---|---  
Political |

  * Al Asalah
  * Authenticity Party
  * Al-Islah
  * Al-Nour Party
    * Islamist Bloc
  * People Party
  * Young Kashgar Party

  
  
Major figures |

  * Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab
  * Nasiruddin Albani
  * Abd al-Aziz ibn Baz
  * Muqbil bin Hadi al-Wadi'i
  * Safar al-Hawali
  * Rabee al-Madkhali
  * Muhammad Al-Munajjid
  * Zakir Naik
  * Salman al-Ouda
  * Ali al-Tamimi
  * Ibn al Uthaymeen

  
  
Related |

  * International propagation of Salafism and Wahhabism
  * Islamic religious police
  * Petro-Islam
  * Sufi-Salafi relations

  
  
|

Militant Islamism/Jihadism  
  
---  
  
| Ideology |

  * Qutbism
  * Salafi jihadism

  
  
---|---  
Movements |

  * Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan
  * Militant Islamism based in 
    * MENA region
      * Egyptian Islamic Jihad
      * Fatah al-Islam
      * Hamas
      * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
    * South Asia
      * Lashkar-e-Taiba
      * Taliban
    * Southeast Asia
      * Abu Sayyaf
    * Sub-Saharan Africa
      * Boko Haram
      * al-Shabaab
  * al-Qaeda
    * in the Arabian Peninsula
    * in Iraq
    * in North Africa

  
  
Major figures |

  * Anwar al-Awlaki
  * Abdullah Yusuf Azzam
  * Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi
  * Osama bin Laden
  * Mohammed Omar
  * Juhayman al-Otaybi
  * Omar Abdel-Rahman
  * Ayman al-Zawahiri

  
  
Related |

  * Islamic extremism
  * Islamic terrorism
  * Jihad
  * Slavery
  * Talibanization
  * Worldwide Caliphate

  
  
| Texts |

  * _Reconstruction_ (Iqbal, 1930s)
  * _Forty Hadith_ (Khomeini, 1940)
  * _Principles_ (Asad, 1961)
  * _Milestones_ (Qutb, 1964)
  * _Islamic Government_ (Khomeini, 1970)
  * _Islamic Declaration_ (Izetbegović, 1969-1970)
  * _The Green Book_ (Gaddafi, 1975)

  
  
---|---  
Historical  
events |

  * Zia-ul-Haq's Islamization
  * Iranian Revolution
  * Grand Mosque seizure
  * Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
  * Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam
  * Popular Arab and Islamic Congress
  * Algerian Civil War
  * September 11 attacks
  * War on Terror
  * Arab Spring
  * Arab Winter

  
  
Influences |

  * Anti-imperialism
  * Anti-Zionism
  * Islamic response to modernity
  * Islamic revival
  * Modern Islamic philosophy

  
  
by region |

  * Balkans
  * Gaza Strip
  * United Kingdom

  
  
Related topics |

  * Criticism
    * Ed Husain
  * Political aspects of Islam
  * Political Islam

  
  
  * Islamism in 
    * South Asia
    * North Africa

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

al-Qaeda and direct affiliates  
  
---  
  
  * al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
  * al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb
  * Al-Shabaab
  * Egyptian Islamic Jihad
  * Turkistan Islamic Party
  * Taliban
  * Caucasus Emirate
  * Fatah al-Islam
  * Tahrir al-Sham (formerly al-Nusra Front)
  * Lashkar-e-Taiba
  * Jaish-e-Mohammed
  * Jemaah Islamiyah
  * Islamic Jihad Union
  * Libyan Islamic Fighting Group
  * Movement for Oneness and Jihad in West Africa
  * Moroccan Islamic Combatant Group
  * Al Qaeda in the Indian Subcontinent

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

War on Terror  
  
---  
  
  * War in Afghanistan
  * Iraq War
  * War in North-West Pakistan
  * Symbolism of terrorism

  
  
Participants |

| Operational |

  * ISAF
  * Operation Enduring Freedom participants
  * Afghanistan
  * Northern Alliance
  * Iraq (Iraqi Armed Forces)
  * NATO
  * Pakistan
  * United Kingdom
  * United States
  * European Union
  * Philippines
  * Ethiopia

  
  
---|---  
Targets |

  * al-Qaeda
  * Osama bin Laden
  * al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
  * Abu Sayyaf
  * Anwar al-Awlaki
  * Al-Shabaab
  * Boko Haram
  * Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami
  * Hizbul Mujahideen
  * Islamic Courts Union
  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
  * Jaish-e-Mohammed
  * Jemaah Islamiyah
  * Lashkar-e-Taiba
  * Taliban
  * Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan

  
  
Conflicts |

| Operation  
_Enduring Freedom_ |

  * War in Afghanistan
  * OEF – Philippines
  * Georgia Train and Equip Program
  * Georgia Sustainment and Stability
  * OEF – Horn of Africa
  * OEF – Trans Sahara
  * Drone strikes in Pakistan

  
  
---|---  
Other |

  * Operation Active Endeavour
  * Insurgency in the Maghreb (2002–present)
  * Insurgency in the North Caucasus
  * Moro conflict in the Philippines
  * Iraq War
  * Iraqi insurgency
  * Operation Linda Nchi
  * Terrorism in Saudi Arabia
  * War in North-West Pakistan
  * War in Somalia (2006–09)
  * 2007 Lebanon conflict
  * al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen
  * Korean conflict

  
  
See also |

  * Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse
  * Axis of evil
  * Black sites
  * Bush Doctrine
  * Clash of Civilizations
  * Cold War
  * Combatant Status Review Tribunal
  * Criticism of the War on Terror
  * Death of Osama bin Laden
  * Enhanced interrogation techniques
  * Torture Memos
  * Extrajudicial prisoners
  * Extraordinary rendition
  * Guantanamo Bay detention camp
  * Iranian Revolution
  * Islamic terrorism
  * Islamism
  * Military Commissions Act of 2006
  * North Korea and weapons of mass destruction
  * Terrorist Surveillance Program
  * Operation _Noble Eagle_
  * Operation _Eagle Assist_
  * Pakistan's role
  * Patriot Act
  * President's Surveillance Program
  * Protect America Act of 2007
  * September 11 attacks
  * State Sponsors of Terrorism
  * Targeted killing
  * _Targeted Killing in International Law_
  * _Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World_
  * Unitary executive theory
  * Unlawful combatant
  * Withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan
  * CAGE

  
  
  * **Terrorism portal**
  * **War portal**

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 151552546
  * LCCN: n2001058020
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 1312 9741
  * GND: 4666782-9
  * SELIBR: 173492
  * SUDOC: 067234488
  * BNF: cb14426810s (data)
  * NDL: 01027005

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Al-
Qaeda&oldid=816431480"

Categories:

  * Al-Qaeda
  * Anti-communism in Afghanistan
  * Anti-communist organizations
  * Anti-government factions of the Syrian Civil War
  * Islamic fundamentalism in the United States
  * Islamic fundamentalism
  * Islamist groups
  * Islam-related controversies
  * Jihadist groups
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by Australia
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by India
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by Israel
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by the United Kingdom
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by Iran
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by Russia
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by Turkey
  * Organizations designated as terrorist in Asia
  * Organizations established in 1988
  * Organized crime
  * Pan-Islamism
  * Rebel groups in Afghanistan
  * Rebel groups in Iraq
  * Rebel groups in Yemen

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from November 2011
  * Articles with dead external links from November 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * CS1 French-language sources (fr)
  * Articles with dead external links from June 2016
  * Webarchive template other archives
  * Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
  * Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
  * Use American English from May 2015
  * All Wikipedia articles written in American English
  * Use mdy dates from June 2017
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Articles containing Arabic-language text
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2009
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2007
  * Wikipedia articles needing style editing from June 2016
  * All articles needing style editing
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017
  * Pages containing citation needed template with deprecated parameters
  * Wikipedia articles in need of updating from August 2016
  * All Wikipedia articles in need of updating
  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from August 2010
  * Articles with unsourced statements from March 2016
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2009
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2015
  * Articles to be expanded from September 2009
  * All articles to be expanded
  * Articles using small message boxes
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from May 2011
  * All articles lacking reliable references
  * Articles lacking reliable references from May 2009
  * Articles lacking reliable references from September 2009
  * Articles with unsourced statements from September 2009
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2015
  * Articles that may contain original research from August 2013
  * All articles that may contain original research
  * CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * View source
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikinews
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * العربية
  * Aragonés
  * Авар
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Bikol Central
  * Български
  * Boarisch
  * Bosanski
  * Brezhoneg
  * Català
  * Cebuano
  * Čeština
  * Chavacano de Zamboanga
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Føroyskt
  * Français
  * Frysk
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Interlingua
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kiswahili
  * Kurdî
  * Кыргызча
  * Ladino
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Lietuvių
  * Limburgs
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * مازِرونی
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nederlands
  * नेपाली
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * پښتو
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Ripoarisch
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Soomaaliga
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 文言
  * Winaray
  * 吴语
  * ייִדיש
  * Yorùbá
  * 粵語
  * Zazaki
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 December 2017, at 08:49.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

