

# Andrew Project

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

The **Andrew Project** was a distributed computing environment developed at
Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) beginning in 1982. It was an ambitious
project for its time and resulted in an unprecedentedly vast and accessible
university computing infrastructure.[1]

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 The Andrew User Interface System
    * 2.1 Applications
    * 2.2 Graphical and Interactive Editors
  * 3 References
  * 4 Further reading
  * 5 External links

## History[edit]

The _Information Technology Center_ , a partnership of Carnegie Mellon and
IBM, began work on the Andrew Project in 1982.[1] In its initial phase, the
project involved both software and hardware, including wiring the campus for
data and developing workstations to be distributed to students and faculty at
CMU and elsewhere. The proposed "3M computer" workstations included a million
pixel display and a megabyte of memory, running at a million instructions per
second. Unfortunately, a cost in the order of a US$10,000 made the computers
beyond the reach of students' budgets. The initial hardware deployment in 1985
established a number of university-owned "clusters" of public workstations in
various academic buildings and dormitories. The campus was fully wired and
ready for the eventual availability of inexpensive personal computers.

Early development within the Information Technology Center, originally called
VICE (Vast Integrated Computing Environment) and VIRTUE (Virtue Is Reached
Through Unix and Emacs), focused on centralized tools, such as a file server,
and workstation tools including a window manager, editor, email, and file
system client code.[2]

Initially the system was prototyped on Sun Microsystems machines, and then to
IBM 6150 RT series computers running a special IBM Academic Operating
System.[3] People involved in the project included James H. Morris, Nathaniel
Borenstein, James Gosling, and David S. H. Rosenthal.

The project was extended several times after 1985 in order to complete the
software, and was renamed "Andrew" for Andrew Carnegie and Andrew Mellon, the
founders of the institutions that eventually became Carnegie Mellon
University. Mostly rewritten as a result of experience from early deployments,
Andrew had four major software components:

  * The **Andrew Toolkit** (ATK), a set of tools that allows users to create and distribute documents containing a variety of formatted and embedded objects,
  * The **Andrew Messaging System** (AMS), an email and bulletin board system based on ATK, and
  * The **Andrew File System** (AFS), a distributed file system emphasizing scalability for an academic and research environment.
  * The **Andrew window manager** (WM), a tiled (non-overlapping windows) window system which allowed remote display of windows on a workstation display. It was one of the first network-oriented window managers to run on Unix as a graphical display.[4] As part of the CMU's partnership with IBM, IBM retained the licensing rights to WM.[4] WM was meant to be licensed under reasonable terms, which CMU thought would resemble a relatively cheap UNIX license, while IBM sought a more lucrative licensing scheme.[4] WM was later replaced by X11 from MIT. Its developers, Gosling and Rosenthal, would next develop the NeWS (Network extensible Window System).[5]

AFS moved out of the Information Technology Center to Transarc in 1988. AMS
was fully decommissioned and replaced with the Cyrus IMAP server in 2002.

## The Andrew User Interface System[edit]

After IBM's funding ended, Andrew continued as an open source project named
the **Andrew User Interface System**. AUIS is a set of tools that allows users
to create and distribute documents containing a variety of formatted and
embedded objects. It is an open-source project run at the Department of
Computer Science at CMU. The Andrew Consortium governs and maintains the
development and distribution of the Andrew User Interface System.[6]

The Andrew User Interface System encompasses three primary components. The
Andrew User Environment (AUE) contains the main editor, help system, user
interface, and tools for rendering multimedia and embedded objects. The Andrew
Toolkit (ATK) contains all of the formattable and embeddable objects, and
allows a method for developers to design their own objects. ATK allows for
multi-level object embedding, in which objects can be embedded in one another.
For example, a raster image object can be embedded into a spreadsheet object.
The Andrew Message System (AMS) provides a mail and bulletin board access,
which allows the user to send, receive, and organize mail as well as post and
read from message boards.

As of version 6.3, the following were components of AUIS:

### Applications[edit]

  * Word processor (EZ)
  * Drawing Editor (Figure)
  * Mail and News Reader (Messages)
  * Mail and News Sender (SendMessage)
  * Font Editor (BDFfont)
  * Documentation Browser (Help)
  * Directory Browser (Bush)
  * Schedule Maintainer (Chump)
  * Shell Interface/Terminal (Console, TypeScript)
  * AUIS Application Menu (Launch)
  * Standard Output Viewer (PipeScript)
  * Preferences Editor (PrefEd)

### Graphical and Interactive Editors[edit]

  * Equation Insert (EQ)
  * Animation Editor (Fad)
  * Drawing Editor (Figure)
  * Insert Layout Insert (Layout)
  * Display Two Adjacent Inserts (LSet)
  * Extension and String Processing Language (Ness)
  * Display and Edit Hierarchies (Org)
  * Page Flipper (Page)
  * Monochrome BMP Image Editor (Raster)
  * Spreadsheet Insert (Table)
  * Text, Document, and Program Editor (Text)

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ CMU's overview of the history of the Andrew Project Archived July 17, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  2. **^** CMU's detailed history of the Andrew Project Archived September 9, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
  3. **^** N. S. Borenstein (December 1996). "CMU's Andrew project: a retrospective". _Communications of the ACM_. **39** (12): 298–es. doi:10.1145/272682.272717.  
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Borenstein, Nathaniel S. (1991). _Programming as if people mattered  : friendly programs, software engineering, and other noble delusions_ (4 print. ed.). Princeton, N.J.: Princeton University Press. pp. 55–56. ISBN 9780691087528. 
  5. **^** James Gosling; David S. H. Rosenthal; Michelle J. Arden (1989). _The NeWS Book_. Springer Verlag. pp. 34–36. ISBN 978-0-387-96915-2.  
  6. **^** Fred Hansen. "Welcome to the Andrew Consortium". Retrieved May 3, 2011. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Morris, J.H., Van Houweling, D., & Slack, K., The Information Technology Center Carnegie Mellon Technical Report CMU-ITC-025, 1983.
  * Morris, J.H.; Satyanarayanan, M.; Conner, M.H.; Howard, J.H.; Rosenthal, D.S.H. & Smith, F.D. (March 1986). "Andrew, a Distributed Computing Environment". _Communications of the ACM_. **29** (3): 184–201. doi:10.1145/5666.5671. ISSN 0001-0782.  

## External links[edit]

  * The Andrew Project \- CMU's site chronicling the history of the project and the people involved.

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Andrew_Project&oldid=813085896"

Categories:

  * Carnegie Mellon University software
  * Distributed computing architecture

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Norsk

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 1 December 2017, at 17:49.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

