

# Andrew Carnegie

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on _19 December 2017_.

Jump to: navigation, search

Andrew Carnegie  
---  
  
Carnegie in 1913  
  
Born | (1835-11-25)November 25, 1835  
Dunfermline, Fife, Scotland  
Died | August 11, 1919(1919-08-11) (aged 83)  
Lenox, Massachusetts, United States  
Resting place | Sleepy Hollow Cemetery, Sleepy Hollow, New York, U.S.  
Known for |

  * Founding and leading the Carnegie Steel Company
  * Founding the Carnegie Corporation of New York, Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, Carnegie Institution for Science, Carnegie Mellon University, Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Carnegie Library, and the Carnegie Hero Fund

  
  
Net worth | US$309 billion in 2007 dollars, according to _Forbes Magazine_[1]  
Political party | Republican[2]  
Spouse(s) | Louise Whitfield (m. 1887)  
Children | Margaret Carnegie Miller  
Parent(s) | William Carnegie  
Margaret Morrison Carnegie  
Relatives | Thomas M. Carnegie (Brother) George Lauder (1st Cousin)  
Signature  
  
Carnegie as he appears in the National Portrait Gallery in Washington, D.C.

**Andrew Carnegie** (/ kɑːrˈneɪɡi/ _kar- **NAY** -gee_, but commonly
/ˈkɑːrnəɡi/ _**KAR** -nə-ghee_ or /kɑːrˈnɛɡi/ _kar- **NEG** -ee_;[3] November
25, 1835 – August 11, 1919) was a Scottish-American industrialist, business
magnate, and philanthropist.

Carnegie led the expansion of the American steel industry in the late 19th
century and is often identified as one of the richest people (and richest
Americans) ever.[4] He became a leading philanthropist in the United States,
and in the British Empire. During the last 18 years of his life, he gave away
about $350 million[5][note 1] to charities, foundations, and
universities—almost 90 percent of his fortune. His 1889 article proclaiming
"The Gospel of Wealth" called on the rich to use their wealth to improve
society, and stimulated a wave of philanthropy.

Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, Scotland, and immigrated to the United
States with his parents in 1848. Carnegie started work as a telegrapher, and
by the 1860s had investments in railroads, railroad sleeping cars, bridges,
and oil derricks. He accumulated further wealth as a bond salesman, raising
money for American enterprise in Europe. He built Pittsburgh's Carnegie Steel
Company, which he sold to J.P. Morgan in 1901 for $480 million.[5] It became
the U.S. Steel Corporation. After selling Carnegie Steel, he surpassed John D.
Rockefeller as the richest American for the next couple of years.[6]

Carnegie devoted the remainder of his life to large-scale philanthropy, with
special emphasis on local libraries, world peace, education, and scientific
research. With the fortune he made from business, he built Carnegie Hall and
the Peace Palace and founded the Carnegie Corporation of New York, Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, Carnegie Institution for Science, Carnegie
Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Carnegie Hero Fund, Carnegie Mellon
University, and the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, among others.

## Contents

  * 1 Biography
    * 1.1 Railroads
    * 1.2 1860–1865: The Civil War
    * 1.3 Keystone Bridge Company
    * 1.4 Industrialist
      * 1.4.1 1885–1900: Steel empire
      * 1.4.2 1901: U.S. Steel
    * 1.5 Scholar and activist
      * 1.5.1 1880–1900
    * 1.6 Anti-imperialism
    * 1.7 1901–1919: Philanthropist
      * 1.7.1 3,000 public libraries
      * 1.7.2 Investing in education
    * 1.8 Death
  * 2 Controversies
    * 2.1 1889: Johnstown Flood
    * 2.2 1892: Homestead Strike
  * 3 Philosophy
    * 3.1 Andrew Carnegie Dictum
    * 3.2 On wealth
    * 3.3 Intellectual influences
    * 3.4 Religion and worldview
    * 3.5 World peace
    * 3.6 US colonial expansion
  * 4 Writings
  * 5 Legacy and honors
  * 6 See also
  * 7 Notes
  * 8 References
  * 9 Cited sources
  * 10 Works
  * 11 Further reading
  * 12 External links

## Biography[edit]

Birthplace of Andrew Carnegie in Dunfermline, Scotland

Andrew Carnegie was born in Dunfermline, Scotland in 1835, in a typical
weaver's cottage with only one main room, consisting of half the ground floor
which was shared with the neighboring weaver's family.[7] The main room served
as a living room, dining room and bedroom.[7] He was named after his legal
grandfather.[7] In 1836, the family moved to a larger house in Edgar Street
(opposite Reid's Park), following the demand for more heavy damask from which
his father, William Carnegie, benefited.[7] He was educated at the Free School
in Dunfermline, which had been a gift to the town by the philanthropist Adam
Rolland of Gask.[8]

His uncle, George Lauder Sr., a Scottish political leader, deeply influenced
him as a boy by introducing him to the writings of Robert Burns and historical
Scottish heroes such as Robert the Bruce, William Wallace, and Rob Roy.
Lauder's son, also named George Lauder, grew up with Andrew and would become
his business partner. When Carnegie was thirteen, his father had fallen on
very hard times as a handloom weaver; making matters worse, the country was in
starvation. His mother helped support the family by assisting her brother (a
cobbler), and by selling potted meats at her "sweetie shop". By the 1840s, she
was the primary breadwinner.[9] Struggling to make ends meet, the Carnegies
then decided to move to Allegheny, Pennsylvania, in the United States in 1848
for the prospect of a better life.[10]

Carnegie's family had to borrow money from Lauder in order to migrate.[
_citation needed_ ] Allegheny was a growing industrial area that produced many
products including wool and cotton cloth. The "Made in Allegheny" label used
on these and other diversified products was becoming more and more
popular.[11] His first job at age 13 in 1848 was as a bobbin boy, changing
spools of thread in a cotton mill 12 hours a day, 6 days a week in a
Pittsburgh cotton factory. His starting wage was $1.20 per week ($36.36 in
2017 dollars).[12]

### Railroads[edit]

Carnegie age 16, with brother Thomas

In 1849,[13] Carnegie became a telegraph messenger boy in the Pittsburgh
Office of the Ohio Telegraph Company, at $2.50 per week (or $76 in 2017
dollars),[14] following the recommendation of his uncle. He was a very hard
worker and would memorize all of the locations of Pittsburgh's businesses and
the faces of important men. He made many connections this way. He also paid
close attention to his work, and quickly learned to distinguish the differing
sounds the incoming telegraph signals produced. He developed the ability to
translate signals by ear, without using the paper slip,[15] and within a year
was promoted to operator. Carnegie's education and passion for reading was
given a great boost by Colonel James Anderson, who opened his personal library
of 400 volumes to working boys each Saturday night.[16] Carnegie was a
consistent borrower and a "self-made man" in both his economic development and
his intellectual and cultural development. He was so grateful to Colonel
Anderson for the use of his library that he "resolved, if ever wealth came to
me, [to see to it] that other poor boys might receive opportunities similar to
those for which we were indebted to the noble man".[17] His capacity, his
willingness for hard work, his perseverance and his alertness soon brought
forth opportunities.

Starting in 1853, Thomas A. Scott of the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
employed Carnegie as a secretary/telegraph operator at a salary of $4.00 per
week ($125.00 in 2017 dollars). Carnegie accepted this job with the railroad
as he saw more prospects for career growth and experience with the railroad
than with the telegraph company.[9] At age 24, Scott asked Carnegie if he
could handle being superintendent of the Western Division of the Pennsylvania
Railroad.[18] On December 1, 1859, Carnegie officially became superintendent
of the Western Division. Carnegie then hired his sixteen-year-old brother,
Tom, to be his personal secretary and telegraph operator. Not only did
Carnegie hire his brother, but he also hired his cousin, Maria Hogan, who
became the first female telegraph operator in the country.[19] As
superintendent Carnegie made a salary of fifteen hundred dollars a year
($47,000 in 2017).[18] His employment by the Pennsylvania Railroad Company
would be vital to his later success. The railroads were the first big
businesses in America, and the Pennsylvania was one of the largest of them
all. Carnegie learned much about management and cost control during these
years, and from Scott in particular.[9]

Scott also helped him with his first investments. Many of these were part of
the corruption indulged in by Scott and the Pennsylvania's president, John
Edgar Thomson, which consisted of inside trading in companies that the
railroad did business with, or payoffs made by contracting parties "as part of
a quid pro quo".[20] In 1855, Scott made it possible for Carnegie to invest
$500 in the Adams Express, which contracted with the Pennsylvania to carry its
messengers. The money was secured by his mother's placing a $600 mortgage on
the family's $700 home, but the opportunity was available only because of
Carnegie's close relationship with Scott.[20][21] A few years later, he
received a few shares in Theodore Tuttle Woodruff's sleeping car company, as a
reward for holding shares that Woodruff had given to Scott and Thomson, as a
payoff. Reinvesting his returns in such inside investments in railroad-related
industries: (iron, bridges, and rails), Carnegie slowly accumulated capital,
the basis for his later success. Throughout his later career, he made use of
his close connections to Thomson and Scott, as he established businesses that
supplied rails and bridges to the railroad, offering the two men a stake in
his enterprises.

### 1860–1865: The Civil War[edit]

Before the Civil War, Carnegie arranged a merger between Woodruff's company
and that of George Pullman, the inventor of a sleeping car for first class
travel which facilitated business travel at distances over 500 miles (800 km).
The investment proved a great success and a source of profit for Woodruff and
Carnegie. The young Carnegie continued to work for the Pennsylvania's Tom
Scott, and introduced several improvements in the service.[22]

In spring 1861, Carnegie was appointed by Scott, who was now Assistant
Secretary of War in charge of military transportation, as Superintendent of
the Military Railways and the Union Government's telegraph lines in the East.
Carnegie helped open the rail lines into Washington D.C. that the rebels had
cut; he rode the locomotive pulling the first brigade of Union troops to reach
Washington D.C. Following the defeat of Union forces at Bull Run, he
personally supervised the transportation of the defeated forces. Under his
organization, the telegraph service rendered efficient service to the Union
cause and significantly assisted in the eventual victory. Carnegie later joked
that he was "the first casualty of the war" when he gained a scar on his cheek
from freeing a trapped telegraph wire.

Defeat of the Confederacy required vast supplies of munitions, as well as
railroads (and telegraph lines) to deliver the goods. The war demonstrated how
integral the industries were to American success.

### Keystone Bridge Company[edit]

In 1864, Carnegie invested $40,000 in Story Farm on Oil Creek in Venango
County, Pennsylvania. In one year, the farm yielded over $1,000,000 in cash
dividends, and petroleum from oil wells on the property sold profitably. The
demand for iron products, such as armor for gunboats, cannons, and shells, as
well as a hundred other industrial products, made Pittsburgh a center of
wartime production. Carnegie worked with others in establishing a steel
rolling mill, and steel production and control of industry became the source
of his fortune. Carnegie had some investments in the iron industry before the
war.

After the war, Carnegie left the railroads to devote all his energies to the
ironworks trade. Carnegie worked to develop several iron works, eventually
forming the Keystone Bridge Works and the Union Ironworks, in Pittsburgh.
Although he had left the Pennsylvania Railroad Company, he remained closely
connected to its management, namely Thomas A. Scott and J. Edgar Thomson. He
used his connection to the two men to acquire contracts for his Keystone
Bridge Company and the rails produced by his ironworks. He also gave stock to
Scott and Thomson in his businesses, and the Pennsylvania was his best
customer. When he built his first steel plant, he made a point of naming it
after Thomson. As well as having good business sense, Carnegie possessed charm
and literary knowledge. He was invited to many important social
functions—functions that Carnegie exploited to his own advantage.[23]

Carnegie, c. 1878

Carnegie believed in using his fortune for others and doing more than making
money. He wrote:

> I propose to take an income no greater than $50,000 per annum! Beyond this I
need ever earn, make no effort to increase my fortune, but spend the surplus
each year for benevolent purposes! Let us cast aside business forever, except
for others. Let us settle in Oxford and I shall get a thorough education,
making the acquaintance of literary men. I figure that this will take three
years active work. I shall pay especial attention to speaking in public. We
can settle in London and I can purchase a controlling interest in some
newspaper or live review and give the general management of it attention,
taking part in public matters, especially those connected with education and
improvement of the poorer classes. Man must have no idol and the amassing of
wealth is one of the worst species of idolatry! No idol is more debasing than
the worship of money! Whatever I engage in I must push inordinately; therefore
should I be careful to choose that life which will be the most elevating in
its character. To continue much longer overwhelmed by business cares and with
most of my thoughts wholly upon the way to make more money in the shortest
time, must degrade me beyond hope of permanent recovery. I will resign
business at thirty-five, but during these ensuing two years I wish to spend
the afternoons in receiving instruction and in reading systematically!

### Industrialist[edit]

#### 1885–1900: Steel empire[edit]

Bessemer converter, schematic diagram

Carnegie did not want to marry during his mother's lifetime, instead choosing
to take care of her in her illness towards the end of her life.[24] After she
died in 1886, the 51-year-old Carnegie married Louise Whitfield,[24] who was
21 years his junior.[25] In 1897,[26] the couple had their only child, a
daughter, whom they named after Carnegie's mother, Margaret.[27]

Carnegie made his fortune in the steel industry, controlling the most
extensive integrated iron and steel operations ever owned by an individual in
the United States. One of his two great innovations was in the cheap and
efficient mass production of steel by adopting and adapting the Bessemer
process for steel making. Sir Henry Bessemer had invented the furnace which
allowed the high carbon content of pig iron to be burnt away in a controlled
and rapid way. The steel price dropped as a direct result, and Bessemer steel
was rapidly adopted for rails; however, it was not suitable for buildings and
bridges.[28]

The second was in his vertical integration of all suppliers of raw materials.
In the late 1880s, Carnegie Steel was the largest manufacturer of pig iron,
steel rails, and coke in the world, with a capacity to produce approximately
2,000 tons of pig metal per day. In 1883, Carnegie bought the rival Homestead
Steel Works, which included an extensive plant served by tributary coal and
iron fields, a 425-mile (684 km) long railway, and a line of lake
steamships.[22] Carnegie combined his assets and those of his associates in
1892 with the launching of the Carnegie Steel Company.[29]

By 1889, the U.S. output of steel exceeded that of the UK, and Carnegie owned
a large part of it. Carnegie's empire grew to include the J. Edgar Thomson
Steel Works in Braddock, (named for John Edgar Thomson, Carnegie's former boss
and president of the Pennsylvania Railroad), Pittsburgh Bessemer Steel Works,
the Lucy Furnaces, the Union Iron Mills, the Union Mill (Wilson, Walker &
County), the Keystone Bridge Works, the Hartman Steel Works, the Frick Coke
Company, and the Scotia ore mines. Carnegie, through Keystone, supplied the
steel for and owned shares in the landmark Eads Bridge project across the
Mississippi River at St. Louis, Missouri (completed 1874). This project was an
important proof-of-concept for steel technology, which marked the opening of a
new steel market.

#### 1901: U.S. Steel[edit]

Carnegie caricatured by Spy for Vanity Fair, 1903

In 1901, Carnegie was 66 years of age and considering retirement. He reformed
his enterprises into conventional joint stock corporations as preparation to
this end. John Pierpont Morgan was a banker and perhaps America's most
important financial deal maker. He had observed how efficiently Carnegie
produced profit. He envisioned an integrated steel industry that would cut
costs, lower prices to consumers, produce in greater quantities and raise
wages to workers. To this end, he needed to buy out Carnegie and several other
major producers and integrate them into one company, thereby eliminating
duplication and waste. He concluded negotiations on March 2, 1901, and formed
the United States Steel Corporation. It was the first corporation in the world
with a market capitalization over $1 billion.

The buyout, secretly negotiated by Charles M. Schwab (no relation to Charles
R. Schwab), was the largest such industrial takeover in United States history
to date. The holdings were incorporated in the United States Steel
Corporation, a trust organized by Morgan, and Carnegie retired from
business.[22] His steel enterprises were bought out at a figure equivalent to
12 times their annual earnings—$480 million[30] (in 2016, $13.8 billion).

Carnegie's share of this amounted to $225,639,000 (in 2016, $6.5 billion),
which was paid to Carnegie in the form of 5%, 50-year gold bonds. The letter
agreeing to sell his share was signed on February 26, 1901. On March 2, the
circular formally filing the organization and capitalization (at
$1,400,000,000—4% of U.S. national wealth at the time) of the United States
Steel Corporation actually completed the contract. The bonds were to be
delivered within two weeks to the Hudson Trust Company of Hoboken, New Jersey,
in trust to Robert A. Franks, Carnegie's business secretary. There, a special
vault was built to house the physical bulk of nearly $230,000,000 worth of
bonds. It was said that "...Carnegie never wanted to see or touch these bonds
that represented the fruition of his business career. It was as if he feared
that if he looked upon them they might vanish like the gossamer gold of the
leprechaun. Let them lie safe in a vault in New Jersey, safe from the New York
tax assessors, until he was ready to dispose of them..."[ _citation needed_ ]

### Scholar and activist[edit]

#### 1880–1900[edit]

Carnegie continued his business career; some of his literary intentions were
fulfilled. He befriended English poet Matthew Arnold, English philosopher
Herbert Spencer, and American humorist Mark Twain, as well as being in
correspondence and acquaintance with most of the U.S. Presidents,[31]
statesmen, and notable writers.[32]

Carnegie constructed commodious swimming-baths for the people of his hometown
in Dunfermline in 1879. In the following year, Carnegie gave £8,000 for the
establishment of a Dunfermline Carnegie Library in Scotland. In 1884, he gave
$50,000 to Bellevue Hospital Medical College (now part of New York University
Medical Center) to found a histological laboratory, now called the Carnegie
Laboratory.

In 1881, Carnegie took his family, including his 70-year-old mother, on a trip
to the United Kingdom. They toured Scotland by coach, and enjoyed several
receptions en route. The highlight was a return to Dunfermline, where
Carnegie's mother laid the foundation stone of a Carnegie library which he
funded. Carnegie's criticism of British society did not mean dislike; on the
contrary, one of Carnegie's ambitions was to act as a catalyst for a close
association between English-speaking peoples. To this end, in the early 1880s
in partnership with Samuel Storey, he purchased numerous newspapers in
England, all of which were to advocate the abolition of the monarchy and the
establishment of "the British Republic". Carnegie's charm, aided by his
wealth, afforded him many British friends, including Prime Minister William
Ewart Gladstone.

In 1886, Carnegie's younger brother Thomas died at age 43. While owning steel
works, Carnegie had purchased at low cost the most valuable of the iron ore
fields around Lake Superior. The same year Carnegie became a figure of
controversy. Following his tour of the UK, he wrote about his experiences in a
book entitled _An American Four-in-hand in Britain_.

Carnegie, right, with James Bryce, 1st Viscount Bryce in 1886

Although actively involved in running his many businesses, Carnegie had become
a regular contributor to numerous magazines, most notably _The Nineteenth
Century_ , under the editorship of James Knowles, and the influential _North
American Review_ , led by editor Lloyd Bryce.

In 1886, Carnegie wrote his most radical work to date, entitled _Triumphant
Democracy_. Liberal in its use of statistics to make its arguments, the book
argued his view that the American republican system of government was superior
to the British monarchical system. It gave a highly favorable and idealized
view of American progress and criticized the British royal family. The cover
depicted an upended royal crown and a broken scepter. The book created
considerable controversy in the UK. The book made many Americans appreciate
their country's economic progress and sold over 40,000 copies, mostly in the
US.

In 1889, Carnegie published "Wealth" in the June issue of the _North American
Review_.[33] After reading it, Gladstone requested its publication in England,
where it appeared as "The Gospel of Wealth" in the _Pall Mall Gazette_.
Carnegie argued that the life of a wealthy industrialist should comprise two
parts. The first part was the gathering and the accumulation of wealth. The
second part was for the subsequent distribution of this wealth to benevolent
causes. Philanthropy was key to making life worthwhile.

Carnegie was a well-regarded writer. He published three books on travel.[34]

### Anti-imperialism[edit]

While Carnegie did not comment on British imperialism, he very strongly
opposed the idea of American colonies. He strongly opposed the annexation of
the Philippines, almost to the point of supporting William Jennings Bryan
against McKinley in 1900. In 1898, Carnegie tried to arrange for independence
for the Philippines. As the end of the Spanish–American War neared, the United
States bought the Philippines from Spain for $20 million. To counter what he
perceived as imperialism on the part of the United States, Carnegie personally
offered $20 million to the Philippines so that the Filipino people could buy
their independence from the United States.[35] However, nothing came of the
offer. In 1898 Carnegie joined the American Anti-Imperialist League, in
opposition to the U.S. annexation of the Philippines. Its membership included
former presidents of the United States Grover Cleveland and Benjamin Harrison
and literary figures like Mark Twain.[36][37]

### 1901–1919: Philanthropist[edit]

Main articles: Carnegie library, Carnegie Corporation of New York, Carnegie
Endowment for International Peace, Carnegie Institution for Science, Carnegie
Trust for the Universities of Scotland, Carnegie United Kingdom Trust,
Carnegie Hero Fund, Carnegie Mellon University, and Carnegie Museums of
Pittsburgh

See also: Carnegie Hall, Tuskegee Institute, and Hooker telescope

Andrew Carnegie's philanthropy. _Puck_ magazine cartoon by Louis Dalrymple,
1903

Carnegie spent his last years as a philanthropist. From 1901 forward, public
attention was turned from the shrewd business acumen which had enabled
Carnegie to accumulate such a fortune, to the public-spirited way in which he
devoted himself to utilizing it on philanthropic projects. He had written
about his views on social subjects and the responsibilities of great wealth in
_Triumphant Democracy_ (1886) and _Gospel of Wealth_ (1889). Carnegie bought
Skibo Castle in Scotland, and made his home partly there and partly in his New
York mansion located at 2 East 91st Street at Fifth Avenue.[22] The building
was completed in late 1902, and he lived there until his death in 1919. His
wife Louise continued to live there until her death in 1946. The building is
now the Cooper-Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum, part of the Smithsonian
Institution. The surrounding neighborhood on Manhattan's Upper East Side has
come to be called Carnegie Hill. The mansion was named a National Historic
Landmark in 1966.[38][39][40][41] He then devoted his life to providing the
capital for purposes of public interest and social and educational
advancement, saving letters of appreciation from those he helped in a desk
drawer labeled "Gratitude and Sweet Words."[42]

He was a powerful supporter of the movement for spelling reform as a means of
promoting the spread of the English language.[22] His organisation, the
Simplified Spelling Board,[43] created the _Handbook of Simplified Spelling_ ,
which was written wholly in reformed spelling.[44][45]

#### 3,000 public libraries[edit]

Among his many philanthropic efforts, the establishment of public libraries
throughout the United States, Britain, Canada and other English-speaking
countries was especially prominent. In this special driving interest and
project of his he was inspired by a visit and tour he made with Enoch Pratt
(1808–1896), formerly of Massachusetts but who made his fortune in Baltimore
and ran his various mercantile and financial businesses very thriftily. Pratt
in turn had been inspired and helped by his friend and fellow Bay Stater,
George Peabody, (1795–1869) who also had made his fortune in the "Monumental
City" of Baltimore before moving to New York and London to expand his empire
as the richest man in America before the Civil War. Later he too endowed
several institutions, schools, libraries and foundations in his home
commonwealth, and also in Baltimore with his Peabody Institute in 1857,
completed in 1866, with added library wings a decade later and several
educational foundations throughout the Old South. Several decades later,
Carnegie's visit with Mr. Pratt lasted for several days; resting and dining in
his city mansion, then touring, visiting and talking with staff and ordinary
citizen patrons of the newly established Enoch Pratt Free Library (1886)
impressed the Scotsman deeply – years later he was always heard to proclaim
that "Pratt was my guide and inspiration".

Carnegie Library, Hornell, NY

Carnegie Library at Syracuse University

Carnegie library, Macomb, Illinois

The first Carnegie library opened in 1883 in Dunfermline. His method was to
build and equip, but only on condition that the local authority matched that
by providing the land and a budget for operation and maintenance.[46] To
secure local interest, in 1885, he gave $500,000 to Pittsburgh for a public
library, and in 1886, he gave $250,000 to Allegheny City for a music hall and
library; and $250,000 to Edinburgh for a free library. In total Carnegie
funded some 3,000 libraries, located in 47 US states, and also in Canada, the
United Kingdom, what is now the Republic of Ireland, Australia, New Zealand,
South Africa, the West Indies, and Fiji. He also donated £50,000 to help set
up the University of Birmingham in 1899.[47] In the early 20th century, a
decade after Mr. Pratt's death, when expansion and city revenues grew tight,
Carnegie returned the favor and endowed a large sum to permit the building of
many Carnegie Libraries in the Enoch Pratt system in Baltimore and enabled
EPFL to expand through the next quarter-century to meet the needs of the
growing city and supply neighborhood branches for its annexed suburbs.

As Van Slyck (1991) showed, the last years of the 19th century saw acceptance
of the idea that free libraries should be available to the American public.
But the design of the idealized free library was the subject of prolonged and
heated debate. On one hand, the library profession called for designs that
supported efficiency in administration and operation; on the other, wealthy
philanthropists favored buildings that reinforced the paternalistic metaphor
and enhanced civic pride. Between 1886 and 1917, Carnegie reformed both
library philanthropy and library design, encouraging a closer correspondence
between the two.[48]

#### Investing in education[edit]

Carnegie Mellon University.

In 1900, Carnegie gave $2 million to start the Carnegie Institute of
Technology (CIT) at Pittsburgh and the same amount in 1902 to found the
Carnegie Institution at Washington, D.C. He later contributed more to these
and other schools.[46] CIT is now known as Carnegie Mellon University after it
merged with the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research. Carnegie also served
on the Boards of Cornell University and Stevens Institute of Technology.[49]

In 1911, Carnegie became a sympathetic benefactor to George Ellery Hale, who
was trying to build the 100 inches (2.5 m) Hooker Telescope at Mount Wilson,
and donated an additional ten million dollars to the Carnegie Institution with
the following suggestion to expedite the construction of the telescope: "I
hope the work at Mount Wilson will be vigorously pushed, because I am so
anxious to hear the expected results from it. I should like to be satisfied
before I depart, that we are going to repay to the old land some part of the
debt we owe them by revealing more clearly than ever to them the new heavens."
The telescope saw first light on November 2, 1917, with Carnegie still
alive.[50]

Pittencrieff Park, Dunfermline.

In 1901, in Scotland, he gave $10 million to establish the Carnegie Trust for
the Universities of Scotland. It was created by a deed which he signed on June
7, 1901, and it was incorporated by Royal Charter on August 21, 1902. The
establishing gift of $10 million was, then, an unprecedented sum: at the time,
total government assistance to all four Scottish universities was about
£50,000 a year. The aim of the Trust was to improve and extend the
opportunities for scientific research in the Scottish universities and to
enable the deserving and qualified youth of Scotland to attend a
university.[51] He was subsequently elected Lord Rector of University of St.
Andrews in December 1901.[52] He also donated large sums of money to
Dunfermline, the place of his birth. In addition to a library, Carnegie also
bought the private estate which became Pittencrieff Park and opened it to all
members of the public, establishing the Carnegie Dunfermline Trust[53] to
benefit the people of Dunfermline. A statue of him stands there today.

He gave a further $10 million in 1913 to endow the Carnegie United Kingdom
Trust, a grant-making foundation.[54][55] He transferred to the trust the
charge of all his existing and future benefactions, other than university
benefactions in the United Kingdom. He gave the trustees a wide discretion,
and they inaugurated a policy of financing rural library schemes rather than
erecting library buildings, and of assisting the musical education of the
people rather than granting organs to churches.[56]

In 1901, Carnegie also established large pension funds for his former
employees at Homestead and, in 1905, for American college professors.[22] The
latter fund evolved into TIAA-CREF. One critical requirement was that church-
related schools had to sever their religious connections to get his money.

His interest in music led him to fund construction of 7,000 church organs. He
built and owned Carnegie Hall in New York City.

Carnegie with African-American leader Booker T. Washington (front row,
center), seen here in 1906 while visiting Tuskegee Institute.

Carnegie was a large benefactor of the Tuskegee Institute for African-American
education under Booker T. Washington. He helped Washington create the National
Negro Business League.

Andrew Carnegie, April 1905.

In 1904, he founded the Carnegie Hero Fund for the United States and Canada (a
few years later also established in the United Kingdom, Switzerland, Norway,
Sweden, France, Italy, the Netherlands, Belgium, Denmark, and Germany) for the
recognition of deeds of heroism. Carnegie contributed $1,500,000 in 1903 for
the erection of the Peace Palace at The Hague; and he donated $150,000 for a
Pan-American Palace in Washington as a home for the International Bureau of
American Republics.[22]

Carnegie was honored for his philanthropy and support of the arts by
initiation as an honorary member of Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia Fraternity on
October 14, 1917, at the New England Conservatory of Music in Boston,
Massachusetts. The fraternity's mission reflects Carnegie's values by
developing young men to share their talents to create harmony in the world.

By the standards of 19th century tycoons, Carnegie was not a particularly
ruthless man but a humanitarian with enough acquisitiveness to go in the
ruthless pursuit of money.[57] "Maybe with the giving away of his money,"
commented biographer Joseph Wall, "he would justify what he had done to get
that money."[58]

To some, Carnegie represents the idea of the American dream. He was an
immigrant from Scotland who came to America and became successful. He is not
only known for his successes but his enormous amounts of philanthropist works,
not only to charities but also to promote democracy and independence to
colonized countries.[59]

### Death[edit]

Carnegie's grave site at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow, New York

The footstone of Andrew Carnegie

Carnegie died[60] on August 11, 1919, in Lenox, Massachusetts at his Shadow
Brook estate, of bronchial pneumonia.[61] He had already given away
$350,695,653 (approximately $76.9 billion, adjusted to 2015 share of GDP
figures)[62] of his wealth. After his death, his last $30,000,000 was given to
foundations, charities, and to pensioners.[63] He was buried at Sleepy Hollow
Cemetery in Sleepy Hollow, New York. The grave site is located on the Arcadia
Hebron plot of land at the corner of Summit Avenue and Dingle Road. Carnegie
is buried only a few yards away from union organizer Samuel Gompers, another
important figure of industry in the Gilded Age.[64]

## Controversies[edit]

### 1889: Johnstown Flood[edit]

Main article: Johnstown Flood

Carnegie was one of more than 50 members of the South Fork Fishing and Hunting
Club, which has been blamed for the Johnstown Flood that killed 2,209 people
in 1889.[65]

At the suggestion of his friend Benjamin Ruff, Carnegie's partner Henry Clay
Frick had formed the exclusive South Fork Fishing and Hunting Club high above
Johnstown, Pennsylvania. The sixty-odd club members were the leading business
tycoons of Western Pennsylvania and included among their number Frick's best
friend, Andrew Mellon, his attorneys Philander Knox and James Hay Reed, as
well as Frick's business partner, Carnegie. High above the city, near the
small town of South Fork, the South Fork Dam was originally built between 1838
and 1853 by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania as part of a canal system to be
used as a reservoir for a canal basin in Johnstown. With the coming-of-age of
railroads superseding canal barge transport, the lake was abandoned by the
Commonwealth, sold to the Pennsylvania Railroad, and sold again to private
interests and eventually came to be owned by the South Fork Fishing and
Hunting Club in 1881. Prior to the flood, speculators had purchased the
abandoned reservoir, made less than well-engineered repairs to the old dam,
raised the lake level, built cottages and a clubhouse, and created the South
Fork Fishing and Hunting Club. Less than 20 miles downstream from the dam sat
the city of Johnstown.

The dam was 72 feet (22 m) high and 931 feet (284 m) long. Between 1881 when
the club was opened, and 1889, the dam frequently sprang leaks and was
patched, mostly with mud and straw. Additionally, a previous owner removed and
sold for scrap the 3 cast iron discharge pipes that previously allowed a
controlled release of water. There had been some speculation as to the dam's
integrity, and concerns had been raised by the head of the Cambria Iron Works
downstream in Johnstown. Such repair work, a reduction in height, and
unusually high snowmelt and heavy spring rains combined to cause the dam to
give way on May 31, 1889 resulting in twenty million tons of water sweeping
down the valley causing the Johnstown Flood.[66] When word of the dam's
failure was telegraphed to Pittsburgh, Frick and other members of the South
Fork Fishing and Hunting Club gathered to form the Pittsburgh Relief Committee
for assistance to the flood victims as well as determining never to speak
publicly about the club or the flood. This strategy was a success, and Knox
and Reed were able to fend off all lawsuits that would have placed blame upon
the club's members.

Although Cambria Iron and Steel's facilities were heavily damaged by the
flood, they returned to full production within a year. After the flood,
Carnegie built Johnstown a new library to replace the one built by Cambria's
chief legal counsel Cyrus Elder, which was destroyed in the flood. The
Carnegie-donated library is now owned by the Johnstown Area Heritage
Association, and houses the Flood Museum.

### 1892: Homestead Strike[edit]

The Homestead Strike

The Homestead Strike was a bloody labor confrontation lasting 143 days in
1892, one of the most serious in U.S. history. The conflict was centered on
Carnegie Steel's main plant in Homestead, Pennsylvania, and grew out of a
dispute between the National Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers
of the United States and the Carnegie Steel Company.

Carnegie left on a trip to Scotland before the unrest peaked.[67] In doing so,
Carnegie left mediation of the dispute in the hands of his associate and
partner Henry Clay Frick. Frick was well known in industrial circles for
maintaining staunch anti-union sensibilities.

Frick's letter to Carnegie describing the plans and munitions that will be on
the barges when the Pinkertons arrive to confront the strikers in Homestead.

After a recent increase in profits by 60%, the company refused to raise
workers' pay by more than 30%. When some of the workers demanded the full 60%,
management locked the union out. Workers considered the stoppage a "lockout"
by management and not a "strike" by workers. As such, the workers would have
been well within their rights to protest, and subsequent government action
would have been a set of criminal procedures designed to crush what was seen
as a pivotal demonstration of the growing labor rights movement, strongly
opposed by management. Frick brought in thousands of strikebreakers to work
the steel mills and Pinkerton agents to safeguard them.

On July 6, the arrival of a force of 300 Pinkerton agents from New York City
and Chicago resulted in a fight in which 10 men—seven strikers and three
Pinkertons—were killed and hundreds were injured. Pennsylvania Governor Robert
Pattison ordered two brigades of state militia to the strike site. Then,
allegedly in response to the fight between the striking workers and the
Pinkertons, anarchist Alexander Berkman shot at Frick in an attempted
assassination, wounding Frick. While not directly connected to the strike,
Berkman was tied in for the assassination attempt. According to Berkman,
"...with the elimination of Frick, responsibility for Homestead conditions
would rest with Carnegie."[68] Afterwards, the company successfully resumed
operations with non-union immigrant employees in place of the Homestead plant
workers, and Carnegie returned to the United States.[67] However, Carnegie's
reputation was permanently damaged by the Homestead events.

## Philosophy[edit]

### Andrew Carnegie Dictum[edit]

In his final days, Carnegie suffered from pneumonia. Before his death on
August 11, 1919, Carnegie had donated $350,695,654 for various causes. The
"Andrew Carnegie Dictum" was:

  * To spend the first third of one's life getting all the education one can.
  * To spend the next third making all the money one can.
  * To spend the last third giving it all away for worthwhile causes.

Carnegie was involved in philanthropic causes, but he kept himself away from
religious circles. He wanted to be identified by the world as a "positivist".
He was highly influenced in public life by John Bright.

### On wealth[edit]

Carnegie at Skibo Castle, 1914

Stained glass window dedicated to Andrew Carnegie in the National Cathedral

As early as 1868, at age 33, he drafted a memo to himself. He wrote: "...The
amassing of wealth is one of the worse species of idolatry. No idol more
debasing than the worship of money."[69] In order to avoid degrading himself,
he wrote in the same memo he would retire at age 35 to pursue the practice of
philanthropic giving for "...the man who dies thus rich dies disgraced."
However, he did not begin his philanthropic work in all earnest until 1881,
with the gift of a library to his hometown of Dunfermline, Scotland.[70]

Carnegie wrote "The Gospel of Wealth",[71] an article in which he stated his
belief that the rich should use their wealth to help enrich society. In that
article, Carnegie also expressed sympathy for the ideas of progressive
taxation and an estate tax.[72][73]

The following is taken from one of Carnegie's memos to himself:

> Man does not live by bread alone. I have known millionaires starving for
lack of the nutriment which alone can sustain all that is human in man, and I
know workmen, and many so-called poor men, who revel in luxuries beyond the
power of those millionaires to reach. It is the mind that makes the body rich.
There is no class so pitiably wretched as that which possesses money and
nothing else. Money can only be the useful drudge of things immeasurably
higher than itself. Exalted beyond this, as it sometimes is, it remains
Caliban still and still plays the beast. My aspirations take a higher flight.
Mine be it to have contributed to the enlightenment and the joys of the mind,
to the things of the spirit, to all that tends to bring into the lives of the
toilers of Pittsburgh sweetness and light. I hold this the noblest possible
use of wealth.[74]

### Intellectual influences[edit]

Carnegie claimed to be a champion of evolutionary thought particularly the
work of Herbert Spencer, even declaring Spencer his teacher.[75] Though
Carnegie claims to be a disciple of Spencer many of his actions went against
the ideas espoused by Spencer.

Spencerian evolution was for individual rights and against government
interference. Furthermore, Spencerian evolution held that those unfit to
sustain themselves must be allowed to perish. Spencer believed that just as
there were many varieties of beetles, respectively modified to existence in a
particular place in nature, so too had human society "spontaneously fallen
into division of labour".[76] Individuals who survived to this, the latest and
highest stage of evolutionary progress would be "those in whom the power of
self-preservation is the greatest—are the select of their generation."[77]
Moreover, Spencer perceived governmental authority as borrowed from the people
to perform the transitory aims of establishing social cohesion, insurance of
rights, and security.[78][79] Spencerian 'survival of the fittest' firmly
credits any provisions made to assist the weak, unskilled, poor and distressed
to be an imprudent disservice to evolution.[80] Spencer insisted people should
resist for the benefit of collective humanity, as severe fate singles out the
weak, debauched, and disabled.[80]

Andrew Carnegie's political and economic focus during the late nineteenth and
early twentieth century was the defense of laissez faire economics. Carnegie
emphatically resisted government intrusion in commerce, as well as government-
sponsored charities. Carnegie believed the concentration of capital was
essential for societal progress and should be encouraged.[81] Carnegie was an
ardent supporter of commercial "survival of the fittest" and sought to attain
immunity from business challenges by dominating all phases of the steel
manufacturing procedure.[82] Carnegie's determination to lower costs included
cutting labor expenses as well.[83] In a notably Spencerian manner, Carnegie
argued that unions impeded the natural reduction of prices by pushing up
costs, which blocked evolutionary progress.[84] Carnegie felt that unions
represented the narrow interest of the few while his actions benefited the
entire community.[82]

On the surface, Andrew Carnegie appears to be a strict laissez-faire
capitalist and follower of Herbert Spencer, often referring to himself as a
disciple of Spencer.[85] Conversely, Carnegie a titan of industry seems to
embody all of the qualities of Spencerian survival of the fittest. The two men
enjoyed a mutual respect for one another and maintained correspondence until
Spencer's death in 1903.[85] There are however, some major discrepancies
between Spencer's capitalist evolutionary conceptions and Andrew Carnegie's
capitalist practices.

Spencer wrote that in production the advantages of the superior individual are
comparatively minor, and thus acceptable, yet the benefit that dominance
provides those who control a large segment of production might be hazardous to
competition. Spencer feared that an absence of "sympathetic self-restraint" of
those with too much power could lead to the ruin of their competitors.[86] He
did not think free market competition necessitated competitive warfare.
Furthermore, Spencer argued that individuals with superior resources who
deliberately used investment schemes to put competitors out of business were
committing acts of "commercial murder".[86] Carnegie built his wealth in the
steel industry by maintaining an extensively integrated operating system.
Carnegie also bought out some regional competitors, and merged with others,
usually maintaining the majority shares in the companies. Over the course of
twenty years, Carnegie's steel properties grew to include the Edgar Thomson
Steel Works, the Lucy Furnace Works, the Union Iron Mills, the Homestead
Works, the Keystone Bridge Works, the Hartman Steel Works, the Frick Coke
Company, and the Scotia ore mines among many other industry related
assets.[87] Furthermore, Carnegie's success was due to his convenient
relationship with the railroad industries, which not only relied on steel for
track, but were also making money from steel transport. The steel and railroad
barons worked closely to negotiate prices instead of free market competition
determinations.[88]

Besides Carnegie's market manipulation, United States trade tariffs were also
working in favor of the steel industry. Carnegie spent energy and resources
lobbying congress for a continuation of favorable tariffs from which he earned
millions of dollars a year.[89] Carnegie tried to keep this information
concealed, but legal documents released in 1900, during proceedings with the
ex-chairman of Carnegie Steel, Henry Clay Frick, revealed how favorable the
tariffs had been.[90] Herbert Spencer absolutely was against government
interference in business in the form of regulatory limitation, taxes, and
tariffs as well. Spencer saw tariffs as a form of taxation that levied against
the majority in service to "the benefit of a small minority of manufacturers
and artisans".[91]

Despite Carnegie's personal dedication to Herbert Spencer as a friend, his
adherence to Spencer's political and economic ideas is more contentious. In
particular, it appears Carnegie either misunderstood or intentionally
misrepresented some of Spencer's principal arguments. Spencer remarked upon
his first visit to Carnegie's steel mills in Pittsburgh, which Carnegie saw as
the manifestation of Spencer's philosophy, "Six months' residence here would
justify suicide."[92]

> The conditions of human society create for this an imperious demand; the
concentration of capital is a necessity for meeting the demands of our day,
and as such should not be looked at askance, but be encouraged. There is
nothing detrimental to human society in it, but much that is, or is bound soon
to become, beneficial. It is an evolution from the heterogeneous to the
homogeneous, and is clearly another step in the upward path of development.

>

> — Carnegie, Andrew 1901 The Gospel of Wealth and Other Timely Essays[81]

On the subject of charity Andrew Carnegie's actions diverged in the most
significant and complex manner from Herbert Spencer's philosophies. In his
1854 essay "Manners and Fashion", Spencer referred to public education as "Old
schemes". He went on to declare that public schools and colleges fill the
heads of students with inept, useless knowledge and exclude useful knowledge.
Spencer stated that he trusted no organization of any kind, "political,
religious, literary, philanthropic", and believed that as they expanded in
influence so too did their regulations expand. In addition, Spencer thought
that as all institutions grow they become evermore corrupted by the influence
of power and money. The institution eventually loses its "original spirit, and
sinks into a lifeless mechanism".[93] Spencer insisted that all forms of
philanthropy that uplift the poor and downtrodden were reckless and
incompetent. Spencer thought any attempt to prevent "the really salutary
sufferings" of the less fortunate "bequeath to posterity a continually
increasing curse".[94] Carnegie, a self-proclaimed devotee of Spencer,
testified to Congress on February 5, 1915: "My business is to do as much good
in the world as I can; I have retired from all other business."[95]

Carnegie held that societal progress relied on individuals who maintained
moral obligations to themselves and to society.[96] Furthermore, he believed
that charity supplied the means for those who wish to improve themselves to
achieve their goals.[97] Carnegie urged other wealthy people to contribute to
society in the form of parks, works of art, libraries and other endeavors that
improve the community and contribute to the "lasting good".[98] Carnegie also
held a strong opinion against inherited wealth. Carnegie believed that the
sons of prosperous businesspersons were rarely as talented as their
fathers.[97] By leaving large sums of money to their children, wealthy
business leaders were wasting resources that could be used to benefit society.
Most notably, Carnegie believed that the future leaders of society would rise
from the ranks of the poor.[99] Carnegie strongly believed in this because he
had risen from the bottom. He believed the poor possessed an advantage over
the wealthy because they receive greater attention from their parents and are
taught better work ethics.[99]

### Religion and worldview[edit]

Carnegie and his family belonged to the Presbyterian Church in the United
States of America, also known informally as the Northern Presbyterian Church.
In his early life Carnegie was skeptical of Calvinism, and religion as a
whole, but reconciled with it later in his life. In his autobiography,
Carnegie describes his family as moderate Presbyterian believers, writing that
"there was not one orthodox Presbyterian" in his family; various members of
his family having somewhat distanced themselves from Calvinism, some of them
leaning more towards Swedenborgianism. Though, being a child, his family led
vigorous theological and political disputes. His mother avoided the topic of
religion. His father left the Presbyterian church after a sermon on infant
damnation, while, according to Carnegie, still remaining very religious on his
own.

Witnessing sectarianism and strife in 19th century Scotland regarding religion
and philosophy, Carnegie kept his distance from organized religion and
theism.[100] Carnegie instead preferred to see things through naturalistic and
scientific terms stating, "Not only had I got rid of the theology and the
supernatural, but I had found the truth of evolution."[101]

Later in life, Carnegie's firm opposition to religion softened. For many years
he was a member of Madison Avenue Presbyterian Church, pastored from 1905 to
1926 by Social Gospel exponent Henry Sloane Coffin, while his wife and
daughter belonged to the Brick Presbyterian Church.[102] He also prepared (but
did not deliver) an address in which he professed a belief in "an Infinite and
Eternal Energy from which all things proceed".[103] Records exist of a short
period of correspondence around 1912–1913 between Carnegie and `Abdu'l-Bahá,
the eldest son of Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith. In these letters,
one of which was published in the _New York Times_ in full text,[104] Carnegie
is extolled as a "lover of the world of humanity and one of the founders of
Universal Peace".

###  World peace[edit]

Carnegie commemorated as an industrialist, philanthropist, and founder of the
Carnegie Endowment for International Peace, 1960[105]

Influenced by his "favorite living hero in public life" John Bright, Carnegie
started his efforts in pursuit of world peace at a young age.[106] His motto,
"All is well since all grows better", served not only as a good
rationalization of his successful business career, but also his view of
international relations.

Despite his efforts towards international peace, Carnegie faced many dilemmas
on his quest. These dilemmas are often regarded as conflicts between his view
on international relations and his other loyalties. Throughout the 1880s and
1890s, for example, Carnegie allowed his steel works to fill large orders of
armor plate for the building of an enlarged and modernized United States Navy,
but he opposed American oversea expansion.[107]

Despite that, Carnegie served as a major donor for than newly-established
International Court of Arbitration's Peace Palace \- brainchild of Russian
Tsar Nicolas II.[108]

In 1913, at the dedication of the Peace Palace in The Hague, Carnegie
predicted that the end of war was ‘‘as certain to come, and come soon, as day
follows night.’’[109]

In 1914, on the eve of the First World War, Carnegie founded the Church Peace
Union (CPU), a group of leaders in religion, academia, and politics. Through
the CPU, Carnegie hoped to mobilize the world's churches, religious
organizations, and other spiritual and moral resources to join in promoting
moral leadership to put an end to war forever. For its inaugural international
event, the CPU sponsored a conference to be held on August 1, 1914, on the
shores of Lake Constance in southern Germany. As the delegates made their way
to the conference by train, Germany was invading Belgium.

Despite its inauspicious beginning, the CPU thrived. Today its focus is on
ethics and it is known as the Carnegie Council for Ethics in International
Affairs, an independent, nonpartisan, nonprofit organization, whose mission is
to be the voice for ethics in international affairs.

The outbreak of the First World War was clearly a shock to Carnegie and his
optimistic view on world peace. Although his promotion of anti-imperialism and
world peace had all failed, and the Carnegie Endowment had not fulfilled his
expectations, his beliefs and ideas on international relations had helped
build the foundation of the League of Nations after his death, which took
world peace to another level.

### US colonial expansion[edit]

On the matter of American colonial expansion, Carnegie had always thought it
is an unwise gesture for the United States. He did not oppose the annexation
of the Hawaiian islands or Puerto Rico, but he opposed the annexation of the
Philippines. Carnegie believed that it involved a denial of the fundamental
democratic principle, and he also urged William McKinley to withdraw American
troops and allow the Filipinos to live with their independence.[110] This act
strongly impressed the other American anti-imperialists, who soon elected him
vice-president of the Anti-Imperialist League.

After he sold his steel company in 1901, Carnegie was able to get fully
involved in the peace cause, both financially and personally. He gave away
much of his fortunes to various peace-keeping agencies in order to keep them
growing. When his friend, the British writer William T. Stead, asked him to
create a new organization for the goal of a peace and arbitration society, his
reply was:

> I do not see that it is wise to devote our efforts to creating another
organization. Of course I may be wrong in believing that, but I am certainly
not wrong that if it were dependent on any millionaire's money it would begin
as an object of pity and end as one of derision. I wonder that you do not see
this. There is nothing that robs a righteous cause of its strength more than a
millionaire's money. Its life is tainted thereby.[111]

Carnegie believed that it is the effort and will of the people, that maintains
the peace in international relations. Money is just a push for the act. If
world peace depended solely on financial support, it would not seem a goal,
but more like an act of pity.

Like Stead, he believed that the United States and the British Empire would
merge into one nation, telling him "We are heading straight to the Re-United
States". Carnegie believed that the combined country's power would maintain
world peace and disarmament.[112] The creation of the Carnegie Endowment for
International Peace in 1910 was regarded as a milestone on the road to the
ultimate goal of abolition of war. Beyond a gift of $10 million for peace
promotion, Carnegie also encouraged the "scientific" investigation of the
various causes of war, and the adoption of judicial methods that should
eventually eliminate them. He believed that the Endowment exists to promote
information on the nations' rights and responsibilities under existing
international law and to encourage other conferences to codify this law.[113]

## Writings[edit]

Carnegie was a frequent contributor to periodicals on labor issues. In
addition to _Triumphant Democracy_ (1886), and _The Gospel of Wealth_ (1889),
he also wrote _Our Coaching Trip, Brighton to Inverness_ (1882), _An American
Four-in-hand in Britain_ (1883), _Round the World_ (1884), _The Empire of
Business_ (1902), _The Secret of Business is the Management of Men_ (1903)
[114] _James Watt_ (1905) in the Famous Scots Series, _Problems of Today_
(1907), and his posthumously published _Autobiography of Andrew Carnegie_
(1920).

##  Legacy and honors[edit]

The Statue of Andrew Carnegie in his home town of Dunfermline

Carnegie received the honorary Doctor of Laws (DLL) from the University of
Glasgow in June 1901,[115] and received the Freedom of the City of Glasgow
_″in recognition of his munificence″_ later the same year.[116] In July 1902
he received the Freedom of the city of St Andrews, _″in testimony of his great
zeal for the welfare of his fellow-men on both sides of the Atlantic.″_[117]

  * The dinosaur _Diplodocus carnegiei_ (Hatcher) was named for Carnegie after he sponsored the expedition that discovered its remains in the Morrison Formation (Jurassic) of Utah. Carnegie was so proud of "Dippi" that he had casts made of the bones and plaster replicas of the whole skeleton donated to several museums in Europe and South America. The original fossil skeleton is assembled and stands in the Hall of Dinosaurs at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
  * After the Spanish–American War, Carnegie offered to donate $20 million to the Philippines so they could buy their independence.
  * Carnegie, Pennsylvania,[118] and Carnegie, Oklahoma, were named in his honor.
  * The Saguaro cactus's scientific name, _Carnegiea gigantea_ , is named after him.
  * The Carnegie Medal for the best children's literature published in the UK was established in his name.
  * The Carnegie Faculty of Sport and Education, at Leeds Beckett University, UK, is named after him.
  * The concert halls in Dunfermline and New York are named after him.
  * At the height of his career, Carnegie was the second-richest person in the world, behind only John D. Rockefeller of Standard Oil.
  * Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh was named after Carnegie, who founded the institution as the Carnegie Technical Schools. 

Carnegie Vanguard High School

  * Lauder College (named after his uncle who encouraged him to get an education) in the Halbeath area of Dunfermline was renamed Carnegie College in 2007.
  * A street in Belgrade (Serbia), next to the Belgrade University Library which is one of the Carnegie libraries, is named in his honor.
  * An American high school, Carnegie Vanguard High School in Houston, Texas, is named after him[119]

Carnegie's personal papers are at the Library of Congress Manuscript Division.
The Carnegie Collections of the Columbia University Rare Book and Manuscript
Library consist of the archives of the following organizations founded by
Carnegie: The Carnegie Corporation of New York (CCNY); The Carnegie Endowment
for International Peace (CEIP); the Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching (CFAT);The Carnegie Council on Ethics and International Affairs
(CCEIA). These collections deal primarily with Carnegie philanthropy and have
very little personal material related to Carnegie. Carnegie Mellon University
and the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh jointly administer the Andrew Carnegie
Collection of digitized archives on Carnegie's life.

## See also[edit]

  * United States portal
  * Scotland portal
  * Biography portal

  * Carnegie (disambiguation)
  * Commemoration of the American Civil War on postage stamps
  * History of public library advocacy
  * List of Carnegie libraries in the United States
  * List of peace activists
  * List of richest Americans in history
  * List of wealthiest historical figures
  * List of universities named after people

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** $78.6 billion in 2015 share of GDP.

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "The All-Time Richest Americans". _All the Money in the World_. Forbes. September 14, 2007. Retrieved  May 4, 2014. 
  2. **^** "Andrew Carnegie". _Encyclopedia.com_.  
  3. **^** MacKay, p. 29.
  4. **^** listed at 372 billion 2014 USD by Jacob Davidson, time.com The 10 Richest People of All Time "Rockefeller gets all the press, but Andrew Carnegie may be the richest American of all time. The Scottish immigrant sold his company, U.S. Steel, to J.P. Morgan for $480 million in 1901. That sum equates to about slightly over 2.1% of U.S. GDP at the time, giving Carnegie economic power equivalent to $372 billion in 2014."
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Andrew Carnegie's Legacy Archived March 2, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.. carnegie.org. Retrieved August 20, 2014.
  6. **^** 25 Richest People @ Celebrity Net Worth.
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ MacKay, pp. 23–24.
  8. **^** The Edinburgh Magazine and Literary Review, Sept 1819
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Nasaw, pp. 54–59, 64–65.
  10. **^** MacKay, pp. 37–38.
  11. **^** Jack McKee, "The North Side Story", in North Side Directory Chamber of Commerce Members 1960–61
  12. **^** _Autobiography_ , p. 34
  13. **^** Edge (2004) pg. 21-22
  14. **^** _Autobiography_ , p. 37
  15. **^** _Autobiography_ , pp. 56, 59
  16. **^** _Autobiography_ , p. 45
  17. **^** Murray, Stuart A.P (2009). _The Library: An Illustrated History_. New York, NY: Skyhorse Pub. ISBN 9781602397064.  
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Edge (2004) pg. 35
  19. **^** Edge (2004) pg. 37
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Nasaw, pp. 59–60
  21. **^** _Autobiography_ , p. 79
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_  One or more of the preceding sentences incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain:  Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1911). "Carnegie, Andrew". _Encyclopædia Britannica_. **5** (11th ed.). Cambridge University Press. pp.  364–365. 
  23. **^** Nasaw, pp. 105–107.
  24. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Edge (2004), p. 78.
  25. **^** Meachen Rau, Dana (2005). _Andrew Carnegie: Captain of Industry_. Capstone. pp. 72–. ISBN 978-0-7565-1853-0.  
  26. **^** Edge (2004), p. 93.
  27. **^** Parker, Lewis K. (2003). _Andrew Carnegie and the Steel Industry_. The Rosen Publishing Group. pp. 40–. ISBN 978-0-8239-6896-1.  
  28. **^** Rosenberg, Nathan (1982). _Inside the Black Box: Technology and Economics_. Cambridge, New York: Cambridge University Press. p.  90\. ISBN 0-521-27367-6.  Bessemer steel suffered from nitrogen embrittlement with age
  29. **^** "Andrew Carnegie | Biography & Facts". _Encyclopedia Britannica_. Retrieved  2017-08-23. 
  30. **^** "Andrew Carnegie". _HISTORY.com_.  
  31. **^** Winkler (2006), p. 172.
  32. **^** Winkler (2006), p. 13.
  33. **^** Carnegie, Andrew (June 1889). "Wealth". _North American Review_.  
  34. **^** Swetnam, George (1980) _Andrew Carnegie_. Twayne Publishers.
  35. **^** Andrew Carnegie timeline of events PBS.
  36. **^** Hirschfeld, Katherine _Health, Politics and Revolution in Cuba_ , p. 117, Transaction Publishers, 2008 ISBN 978-1-4128-0863-7
  37. **^** Porter, Robert Percival (1899). _Industrial Cuba: Being a Study of Present Commercial and Industrial Conditions, with Suggestions as to the Opportunities Presented in the Island for American Capital, Enterprise, and Labour_. G. P. Putnam's sons. p. 43.  
  38. **^** "Carnegie Hall". _National Historic Landmark summary listing_. National Park Service. September 9, 2007.  
  39. **^** "National Register of Historic Places Inventory-Nomination" (pdf). National Park Service. May 30, 1975. 
  40. **^** "National Register of Historic Places Inventory-Nomination" (pdf). National Park Service. May 30, 1975. 
  41. **^** Dolkart, Andrew S; Postal, Matthew A. (2004). _Guide to New York City Landmarks_. New York City Landmarks Preservation Committee. Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg (Author of Foreword) (Third ed.). Hoboken, New Jersey: John Wiley  & Sons. pp. 51, 175. 
  42. **^** Wall, Joseph Frazier (1984). _Skibo: The Story of the Scottish Estate of Andrew Carnegie, from Its Celtic Origins to the Present Day_. Oxford, New York: Oxford University Press. p.  70\. ISBN 978-0-1950-3450-9. 
  43. **^** "CARNEGIE ASSAULTS THE SPELLING BOOK; To Pay the Cost of Reforming English Orthography. CAMPAIGN ABOUT TO BEGIN Board Named, with Headquarters Here – Local Societies Throughout the Country.", _The New York Times_ , March 12, 1906. Retrieved August 28, 2008.
  44. **^** _Handbook of Simplified Spelling_. Simplified Spelling Board, 1920.
  45. **^** Scott, Tom (June 28, 2013). _Ghoti and the Ministry of Helth: Spelling Reform_.  
  46. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Chisholm 1911.
  47. **^** Mickelson, Peter (1975). "American Society and the Public Library in the Thought of Andrew Carnegie". _Journal of Library History_. **10** (2): 117–138. JSTOR 25540622.  
  48. **^** VanSlyck, Abigail A. (1991). ""The Utmost Amount of Effectiv [sic] Accommodation": Andrew Carnegie and the Reform of the American Library". _Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians_. **50** (4): 359–383. JSTOR 990662.  
  49. **^** "Getting to know Stevens Academic Buildings"
  50. **^** Simmons, Mike (1984). "History of Mount Wilson Observatory – Building the 100-Inch Telescope" Archived February 8, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.. Mount Wilson Observatory Association (MWOA).
  51. **^** Our History. Carnegie Trust for the Universities of Scotland
  52. **^** "University intelligence". _The Times_ (36632). London. December 7, 1901. p.  11. 
  53. **^** "Carnegie Dunfermline Trust, Registered Charity no. SC015710". Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator.  
  54. **^** "Carnegie United Kingdom Trust, Registered Charity no. SC012799". Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator.  
  55. **^** "Home - Carnegie UK Trust".  
  56. **^**  One or more of the preceding sentences incorporates text from a publication now in the public domain:  Chisholm, Hugh, ed. (1922). "Carnegie, Andrew". _Encyclopædia Britannica_. **30** (12th ed.). London  & New York. p. 579. 
  57. **^** Krause, Paul (1992). _The Battle for Homestead 1880–1892_. University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN 978-0-8229-5466-8. p. 233
  58. **^** "Andrew Carnegie". _The American Experience_. PBS.
  59. **^** Swetnam, George. (1980) _Andrew Carnegie_. Twayne Publishers. ISBN 0805772391
  60. **^** "Andrew Carnegie Dies Of Pneumonia In His 84th Year". _The New York Times_. August 12, 1919. Retrieved  August 1, 2008. Andrew Carnegie died at Shadow Brook of bronchial pneumonia at 7:10 o'clock this morning. 
  61. **^** Krass (2002), Ch. "The Carnegie Legacy"
  62. **^** "CPI Inflation Calculator". Bureau of Labor Statistics.  
  63. **^** "Carnegie's Estate, At Time Of Death, About $30,000,000". _The New York Times_. August 29, 1919. Retrieved  August 1, 2008. The will of Andrew Carnegie, filed here yesterday and admitted to probate immediately by Surrogate Fowler, disposes of an estate estimated at between $25,000,000 and $30,000,000. The residuary estate of about $20,000,000 goes to the Carnegie Corporation. 
  64. **^** "Sleepy Hollow Cemetery Map" (PDF). Sleepy Hollow Cemetery Historic Fund. 2009. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 9, 2011. Retrieved April 19, 2010. 
  65. **^** Frank, Walter Smoter (May 1988). "The Cause of the Johnstown Flood". _Civil Engineering_ : 63–66. 
  66. **^** McCullough, David (1987) _The Johnstown Flood_. Simon  & Schuster, New York. ISBN 0671207148
  67. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _Autobiography_ , Ch. 17
  68. **^** Berkman, Alexander (1912) _Prison Memoirs of an Anarchist_. Mother Earth Publishing Association. p. 67
  69. **^** Klein, Maury (2004) _The Change Makers_ , p. 57, Macmillan. ISBN 978-0-8050-7518-2
  70. **^** Burlingame, Dwight (2004) _Philanthropy in America_. ABC-CLIO. ISBN 978-1-57607-860-0. p. 60
  71. **^** _Autobiography_ , pp. 255–67
  72. **^** Carnegie, Andrew (1900), _The Gospel of Wealth and Other Timely Essays_ , New York: The Century Company, p. 11, The growing disposition to tax more and more heavily large estates left at death is a cheering indication of the growth of a salutary change in public opinion. The State of Pennsylvania now takes–subject to some exceptions–one tenth of the property left by its citizens. The budget presented in the British Parliament the other day proposes to increase the death duties; and, most significant of all, the new tax is to be a graduated one. Of all forms of taxation this seems the wisest. Men who continue hoarding great sums all their lives, the proper use of which for public ends would work good to the community from which it chiefly came, should be made to feel that the community, in the form of the State, cannot thus be deprived of its proper share. By taxing estates heavily at death the State marks its condemnation of the selfish millionaire's unworthy life. 
  73. **^** Carnegie, Andrew (1962), _The Gospel of Wealth and Other Timely Essays_ , Cambridge, Massachusetts: Belknap Press of Harvard University Press, pp. 21–22 
  74. **^** "Carnegie Libraries". Ontario Ministry of Tourism and Culture. Retrieved  4 September 2011. 
  75. **^** _Wealth_ , p. 165
  76. **^** Spencer, Herbert, 1855 ( _The Principles of Psychology_ , Chapter 1. "Method"). (Kindle Locations 7196–7197). Kindle Edition
  77. **^** Spencer, Herbert 1904. ( _An Autobiography_ , Chapter 23, "A More Active Year") (Kindle Location 5572). Peerless Press. Kindle Edition
  78. **^** Spencer, Herbert, 1851 ( _Social Statics_ , Chapter 19 "The Right to Ignore the State"). (Kindle Locations 43303–43309). Kindle Edition.
  79. **^** Spencer, Herbert, 1851 ( _Social Statics_ , "Chapter 21 The Duty of the State"). (Kindle Locations 44159–44168). Kindle Edition.
  80. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Spencer, Herbert, 1851 ( _Social Statics_ , chapter 25 "poor-laws"). (Kindle Locations 45395–45420). Kindle Edition.
  81. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _Wealth_ , pp. 947–954
  82. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Nasaw, pp. 4762–4767
  83. **^** _Wealth_ , pp. 118–121
  84. **^** _Wealth_ , pp. 1188–1195.
  85. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _Wealth_ , pp. 163–171
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Spencer, Herbert 1887 ( _The Ethics of Social Life: Negative Beneficence_ ). _The Collected Works of 6 Books_ (With Active Table of Contents) (Kindle Locations 26500–26524). Kindle Edition.
  87. **^** Morris, Charles R. (2005). _The Tycoons: How Andrew Carnegie, John D. Rockefeller, Jay Gould, and J. P. Morgan Invented the American Supereconomy_. Times Books. ISBN 0-8050-7599-2. p. 132
  88. **^** Nasaw, pp. 3264–3278.
  89. **^** Nasaw, pp. 7114–7119.
  90. **^** Nasaw, pp. 10653–10657
  91. **^** Spencer, Herbert. _Principles of Ethics_ , 1897 (Chapter 22: "Political Rights-So-called"). (With Active Table of Contents) (Kindle Locations 24948–24956). Kindle Edition.
  92. **^** Wall, Joseph Frazer (1989). _Andrew Carnegie_. p. 386. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press.
  93. **^** Spencer, Herbert. 1854 ( _Manners and Fashion_ ) _The Collected Works of 6 Books_ (With Active Table of Contents) (Kindle Locations 74639–74656). Kindle Edition.
  94. **^** Spencer, Herbert; Eliot, Charles William (September 15, 2011). _The Collected Works of 6 Books_ (With Active Table of Contents) (Kindle Locations 45395–45420). Kindle Edition.
  95. **^** Nasaw, p. 787.
  96. **^** Nasaw, pp. 11529–11536.
  97. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _Wealth_ , pp. 747–748
  98. **^** _Wealth_
  99. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _Wealth_ , pp. 682–689.
  100. **^** Nasaw
  101. **^** _Autobiography_ , p. 339
  102. **^** "Bagpipe Tunes at Carnegie Wedding". _The New York Times_. April 23, 1919.
  103. **^** Nasaw, p. 625
  104. **^** "Carnegie exalted by Bahaist leader". _The New York Times_. September 5, 1917.
  105. **^** "Andrew Carnegie Issue", Arago: people, postage & the post, Smithsonian National Postal Museum, viewed September 27, 2014
  106. **^** _Autobiography_ , Ch. 21, pp. 282–283
  107. **^** Carnegie, _An American Four-in-Hand in Britain_ (New York, 1883), pp. 14–15
  108. **^** Gay, Mark H (November 10, 2013). "The Hague Peace Palace Keeps Tsar's Vision Alive". _The Moscow Times_. Archived from the original on August 8, 2016. Retrieved  August 8, 2016. 
  109. **^** Cited in Bruno Tertrais "The Demise of Ares: The End of War as We Know It?" _The Washington Quarterly_ , 35/3, (2012): p. 17.
  110. **^** Carnegie, _Americanism Versus Imperialism_ , esp. pp. 12–13
  111. **^** Quoted in Hendrick, B. J. (1932) _The Life of Andrew Carnegie_ , Vol.2, p. 337. Garden City, N. Y. [1]
  112. **^** Stead, W. T. (1901). _The Americanization of the World_. Horace Markley. pp. 406–412.  
  113. **^** Patterson, David S. (1970). "Andrew Carnegie's Quest for World Peace". _Proceedings of the American Philosophical Society_. **114** (5): 371–383. JSTOR 985802.  
  114. **^** _HELLENIC AMERICAN CENTER OF ARTS_ http://hellenicamericancenterofthearts.blogspot.com/2015/02/andrew-carnegie.html.   Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  115. **^** "Glasgow University jubilee". _The Times_ (36481). London. June 14, 1901. p.  10. 
  116. **^** "Court circular". _The Times_ (36532). London. August 13, 1901. p.  7. 
  117. **^** "The Freedom of St Andrews". _The Times_ (36824). London. July 19, 1902. p.  14. 
  118. **^** Ackerman, Jan (May 10, 1984). "Town names carry bit of history". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. p.  1. Retrieved October 31, 2015. 
  119. **^** "School Histories: the Stories Behind the Names". Houston Independent School District. Retrieved September 24, 2008. "It is named for Andrew Carnegie, the famous Scottish immigrant who rose to become a steel tycoon and philanthropist."

## Cited sources[edit]

  * Edge, Laura Bufano (2004). _Andrew Carnegie: Industrial Philanthropist_. Lerner Publishing Group. ISBN 978-0-8225-4965-9. OCLC 760059951.  
  * MacKay, J. A. (1997). _Little Boss: A life of Andrew Carnegie_. ISBN 1851588329.  
  * Nasaw, David (2006). _Andrew Carnegie_. New York: The Penguin Press. ISBN 1-59420-104-8.  
  * Winkler, John K. (2006). _Incredible Carnegie_. Read Books. ISBN 978-1-4067-2946-7.  

## Works[edit]

  * _Round the World._ New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1884.
  * _An American Four-in-Hand in Britain._ New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1886.
  * _Triumphant Democracy, or, Fifty Years' March of the Republic._ New York: Charles Scribner's Sons, 1886.
  * _The Bugaboo of Trusts._ Reprinted from _North American Review,_ vol. 148, no. 377 (Feb. 1889).
  * “Wealth,” _North American Review,_ vol. 148, no. 381 (June 1889), pp.  653–664. —Original version of “The Gospel of Wealth.”
  * _The Gospel of Wealth and Other Timely Essays._ New York: The Century Co., 1901.
  * _Industrial Peace: Address at the Annual Dinner of the National Civic Federation, New York City, December 15, 1904._ [n.c.]: [National Civic Federation], [1904].
  * _James Watt._ New York: Doubleday, Page and Co., 1905.
  * _Edwin M. Stanton: An Address by Andrew Carnegie on Stanton Memorial Day at Kenyon College._ New York: Doubleday, Page and Co., 1906.
  * _Problems of Today: Wealth — Labor — Socialism._ New York: Doubleday, Page and Co., 1908.
  * _Speech at the Annual Meeting of the Peace Society, at the Guildhall, London, EC, May 24th, 1910._ London: The Peace Society, 1910.
  * _A League of Peace: A Rectorial Address Delivered to the Students in the University of St. Andrews, 17th October 1905._ New York: New York Peace Society, 1911.
  * _Autobiography of Andrew Carnegie._ Boston: Houghton and Mifflin, 1920.

**Collections**

  * Works by or about Andrew Carnegie at Internet Archive
  * Works by Andrew Carnegie at Project Gutenberg
  * Works by Andrew Carnegie at LibriVox (public domain audiobooks) 

##  Further reading[edit]

  * Bostaph, Samuel. (2015). _Andrew Carnegie: An Economic Biography._ Lexington Books, Lanham, MD. ISBN 978-0739189832; 125pp online review
  * Ewing, Heather. (2014). _Life of a Mansion: The Story of Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum._ Cooper Hewitt, Smithsonian Design Museum, New York. ISBN 978-0-910503-71-6
  * Goldin, Milton. "Andrew Carnegie and the Robber Baron Myth". In _Myth America: A Historical Anthology, Volume II_. 1997. Gerster, Patrick, and Cords, Nicholas. (editors.) Brandywine Press, St. James, NY. ISBN 1-881089-97-5
  * Josephson; Matthew. (1938, 1987). _The Robber Barons: The Great American Capitalists, 1861–1901_ ISBN 99918-47-99-5
  * Krass, Peter. (2002). _Carnegie_ Wiley. ISBN 0-471-38630-8
  * Lanier, Henry Wysham (April 1901). "The Many-Sided Andrew Carnegie: A Citizen of the Republic". _The World's Work: A History of Our Time_. **I** : 618–630. Retrieved July 9, 2009. 
  * Lester, Robert M. (1941). _Forty Years of Carnegie Giving: A Summary of the Benefactions of Andrew Carnegie and of the Work of the Philanthropic Trusts Which He Created_. C. Scribner's Sons, New York.
  * Livesay, Harold C. (1999). _Andrew Carnegie and the Rise of Big Business_ , 2nd Edition. ISBN 0-321-43287-8 (short biography)
  * Lorenzen, Michael. (1999). "Deconstructing the Carnegie Libraries: The Sociological Reasons Behind Carnegie's Millions to Public Libraries". _Illinois Libraries_. **81** (2): 75–78.  
  * Rees, Jonathan. (1997). "Homestead in Context: Andrew Carnegie and the Decline of the Amalgamated Association of Iron and Steel Workers." _Pennsylvania History_ **64** (4): 509–533. ISSN 0031-4528
  * VanSlyck, Abigail A. "'The Utmost Amount of Effective Accommodation': Andrew Carnegie and the Reform of the American Library." _Journal of the Society of Architectural Historians_ 1991 **50** (4): 359–383. ISSN 0037-9808 (Fulltext: in Jstor)
  * Wall, Joseph Frazier. _Andrew Carnegie_ (1989). ISBN 0-8229-5904-6 (Along with Nasaw the most detailed scholarly biography)

##  External links[edit]

  * Documentary: "Andrew Carnegie: Rags to Riches, Power to Peace"

| Wikisource has original works written by or about:  
**_Andrew Carnegie_**  
---|---  
|  Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Andrew Carnegie**_.  
---|---  
|  Wikiquote has quotations related to: _**Andrew Carnegie**_  
---|---  
  
  * Carnegie Birthplace Museum website
  * "Archival material relating to Andrew Carnegie". UK National Archives.  
  * Andrew Carnegie at Find a Grave
  * _Booknotes_ interview with Peter Krass on _Carnegie_ , November 24, 2002.

Academic offices  
---  
Preceded by  
James Stuart | **Rector of the University of St Andrews**  
1901–1907 |  Succeeded by  
The Lord Avebury  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Hall of Fame for Great Americans  
  
---  
  
  * John Adams
  * John Quincy Adams
  * Jane Addams
  * Louis Agassiz
  * Susan B. Anthony
  * John James Audubon
  * George Bancroft
  * Clara Barton
  * Henry Ward Beecher
  * Alexander Graham Bell
  * Daniel Boone
  * Edwin Booth
  * Louis Brandeis
  * Phillips Brooks
  * William Cullen Bryant
  * Luther Burbank
  * Andrew Carnegie
  * George Washington Carver
  * William Ellery Channing
  * Rufus Choate
  * Henry Clay
  * Grover Cleveland
  * James Fenimore Cooper
  * Peter Cooper
  * Charlotte Cushman
  * James Buchanan Eads
  * Thomas Alva Edison
  * Jonathan Edwards
  * Ralph Waldo Emerson
  * David Farragut
  * Stephen Foster
  * Benjamin Franklin
  * Robert Fulton
  * Josiah W. Gibbs
  * William C. Gorgas
  * Ulysses S. Grant
  * Asa Gray
  * Alexander Hamilton
  * Nathaniel Hawthorne
  * Joseph Henry
  * Patrick Henry
  * Oliver Wendell Holmes Sr.
  * Oliver Wendell Holmes Jr.
  * Mark Hopkins
  * Elias Howe
  * Washington Irving
  * Andrew Jackson
  * Thomas J. Jackson
  * Thomas Jefferson
  * John Paul Jones
  * James Kent
  * Sidney Lanier
  * Robert E. Lee
  * Abraham Lincoln
  * Henry Wadsworth Longfellow
  * James Russell Lowell
  * Mary Lyon
  * Edward MacDowell
  * James Madison
  * Horace Mann
  * John Marshall
  * Matthew Fontaine Maury
  * Albert A. Michelson
  * Maria Mitchell
  * James Monroe
  * Samuel F. B. Morse
  * William T. G. Morton
  * John Lothrop Motley
  * Simon Newcomb
  * Thomas Paine
  * Alice Freeman Palmer
  * Francis Parkman
  * George Peabody
  * William Penn
  * Edgar Allan Poe
  * Walter Reed
  * Franklin D. Roosevelt
  * Theodore Roosevelt
  * Augustus Saint-Gaudens
  * William Tecumseh Sherman
  * John Philip Sousa
  * Joseph Story
  * Harriet Beecher Stowe
  * Gilbert Stuart
  * Sylvanus Thayer
  * Henry David Thoreau
  * Mark Twain
  * Lillian Wald
  * Booker T. Washington
  * George Washington
  * Daniel Webster
  * George Westinghouse
  * James McNeill Whistler
  * Walt Whitman
  * Eli Whitney
  * John Greenleaf Whittier
  * Emma Willard
  * Frances E. Willard
  * Roger Williams
  * Woodrow Wilson
  * Orville Wright
  * Wilbur Wright

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 94625754
  * LCCN: n50032468
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 2283 1065
  * GND: 11866719X
  * SELIBR: 182753
  * SUDOC: 027294625
  * BNF: cb124591714 (data)
  * BIBSYS: 90906911
  * ULAN: 500293488
  * NLA: 35025974
  * NDL: 00464261
  * BNE: XX1237721
  * IATH: w60w8nz7

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Andrew_Carnegie&oldid=816075104"

Categories:

  * 1835 births
  * 1919 deaths
  * 19th-century American businesspeople
  * 20th-century American businesspeople
  * Activists from Massachusetts
  * American billionaires
  * American Civil War industrialists
  * American company founders
  * American deists
  * American industrialists
  * American philanthropists
  * American railway entrepreneurs
  * American steel industry businesspeople
  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Bessemer Gold Medal
  * Burials at Sleepy Hollow Cemetery
  * Businesspeople from Pittsburgh
  * Carnegie Mellon University people
  * Deaths from bronchopneumonia
  * Gilded Age
  * Hall of Fame for Great Americans inductees
  * Librarianship and human rights
  * Massachusetts Republicans
  * People associated with the University of Birmingham
  * People from Dunfermline
  * People from Lenox, Massachusetts
  * Progressive Era in the United States
  * Rectors of the University of St Andrews
  * Scottish deists
  * Scottish emigrants to the United States
  * Scottish billionaires
  * Spiritualists
  * U.S. Steel
  * University and college founders

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1911 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the 1911 Encyclopædia Britannica
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the 1922 Encyclopaedia Britannica with Wikisource reference
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the 1922 Encyclopædia Britannica
  * Pages with citations lacking titles
  * Pages with citations having bare URLs
  * Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)
  * Use mdy dates from November 2016
  * Infobox person using certain parameters when dead
  * Biography with signature
  * Articles with hCards
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from February 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from February 2013
  * Articles with Internet Archive links
  * Articles with Project Gutenberg links
  * Articles with LibriVox links
  * Find a Grave template with ID same as Wikidata
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote
  * Wikisource

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Frysk
  * Gàidhlig
  * ગુજરાતી
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * Қазақша
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Malagasy
  * मराठी
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Occitan
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * پنجابی
  * Piemontèis
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Simple English
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 19 December 2017, at 02:47.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

