

# Athletic nickname

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

**This article has multiple issues.** Please help **improve it** or discuss
these issues on the **talk page**. _(Learn how and when to remove these
template messages)_

|

|

This article **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(July 2007)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
|

This article **possibly containsoriginal research**.  Please improve it by
verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting
only of original research should be removed. _(October 2014)_ _(Learn how and
when to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
_(Learn how and when to remove this template message)_  
  
The **athletic nickname** , or equivalently **athletic moniker** , of a
university or college within the United States is the name officially adopted
by that institution for at least the members of its athletic teams. Typically
as a matter of engendering school spirit, the institution either officially or
unofficially uses this moniker of the institution's athletic teams also as a
nickname to refer to people associated with the institution, especially its
current students, but also often its alumni, its faculty, and its
administration as well. This practice at the university and college tertiary
higher-education level has proven so popular that it extended to the high
school secondary-education level in the USA and in recent years even to the
primary-education level as well.

## Contents

  * 1 Themes
    * 1.1 Abstract concept
    * 1.2 Animal
    * 1.3 Collection
    * 1.4 Hero or archetype
    * 1.5 Native American likeness
    * 1.6 Common and uncommon names
  * 2 See also
  * 3 References

## Themes[edit]

In the USA, multiple recurring themes have appeared over time for choosing a
school's athletic nickname. In almost all cases, the institution chooses an
athletic nickname with an overtly positive goal in mind, where that goal
reflects the character of the institution—either a previously established
characteristic or a characteristic hoped for as a goal henceforth.

### Abstract concept[edit]

Often by choosing an abstract concept as its athletic moniker, the institution
wants to inspire its student-athletes on and off the field to achieve success
that the abstract concept represents. Examples: Cornell Big Red, Stanford
Cardinal, UIC Flames, Tulane Green Wave.

### Animal[edit]

Often by choosing an animal, the school wants to emphasize the instillation of
fear of losing athletic competitions to the institution's teams, such as
through an especially fierce or stealthy animal. When the school chooses an
animal as its athletic nickname, usually in the plural or as a collective noun
for a group of that animal, then typically, the school has that animal (in the
singular) as its mascot, either specifically named with a proper noun or
generically referred to without a proper noun. Examples: Michigan Wolverines,
Oregon Ducks, Princeton Tigers, Iowa Hawkeyes, California Golden Bears.

### Collection[edit]

Often by choosing a collection that represents a summary of the institution's
students or of its history. Such a collection may refer to an ethnicity; a
profession; religious designation, such as saints; or other groupings of
people. A portion of athletic monikers that fall into this collection category
started originally as derogatory epithets from others, but as an act of
defiance, the school embraced the term as a rallying cry to overcome the
term's negative origin. Because a collection is hard to represent or iconify,
when a school chooses a collection as its athletic nickname, the school
typically chooses a related but different mascot that symbolizes that
collection. Examples: Notre Dame Fighting Irish, Oklahoma Sooners, Purdue
Boilermakers, Illinois Fighting Illini

### Hero or archetype[edit]

A small number of schools choose an archetypical heroic person as their
official athletic nickname. This person may be a graduate of the school who is
viewed as embodying the school's mission or an archetypal person who is
symbolic of the school's area, such as the West Virginia University
Mountaineer. In religiously affiliated schools, this person may be a
historical person in the religion who has been bestowed an official
designation in that religion, such as a saint in Roman Catholic or Orthodox
Christianity.

### Native American likeness[edit]

Main article: Native American mascot controversy

Likenesses to Native Americans were at one time widely popular athletic
monikers, especially for schools that adopted them in the 19th or early 20th
century. In recent years, some Native American organizations have protested
the unlicensed use of likenesses of Native Americans related to team names,
team logos, athletic monikers, cheerleaders, and cheering techniques. The
granting of overtly expressed written licenses by Native American
organizations to use likenesses of Native Americans in these ways is rare,
although not unheard of. In one notable example, two major groups of the
Seminole nation, the Seminole Tribe of Florida and Seminole Nation of
Oklahoma, have expressly given Florida State University permission to use the
nickname "Seminoles" and certain Seminole imagery. Central Michigan University
has a similar arrangement with the Saginaw Chippewa Indian Tribe to use the
name "Chippewas".

Because of protests from some Native American organizations, some schools have
changed their athletic moniker and mascot and cheering practices without
significant objection once the issue was raised, especially if such offense
toward a group of people was viewed as incompatible with that school's stated
mission or if the threat of legal action was too burdensome. Other schools or
their student bodies have defended their use of Native American likenesses,
especially if the institution views the use of Native American likenesses as
respectful or so intimately tied with history to be inseparable from the
institution, such as if the name of institution derives from the name of a
tribe. Still other schools have embarked on a series of failed attempts to
find a replacement.[1]

### Common and uncommon names[edit]

Often, certain nicknames (animals and some abstract concepts, such as Giants,
Broncos, or Wildcats) become very common. However, some nicknames are unique
to that school/team such as Illini, Demon Deacons or Fords.

## See also[edit]

  * List of college sports team nicknames
  * List of college sports teams in the United States with different nicknames for men's and women's teams
  * Lists of nicknames – nickname list articles on Wikipedia

## References[edit]

  1. **^** http://topics.nytimes.com/top/reference/timestopics/organizations/m/marquette_university/index.html?query=INDIANS,%20AMERICAN&field=des&match=exact

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Athletic_nickname&oldid=808611383"

Categories:

  * College sports culture in the United States
  * Informal personal names

Hidden categories:

  * Articles needing additional references from July 2007
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Articles that may contain original research from October 2014
  * All articles that may contain original research
  * Articles with multiple maintenance issues

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Simple English

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 3 November 2017, at 23:33.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

