

# Beaux-Arts architecture

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

The Palais Garnier (1861–1875), an example of Second Empire Beaux Arts style,
typically employing Neo-Baroque decorative elements

_**Beaux-Arts**_ **architecture** (/ ˌboʊˈzɑːr/; French: [bozaʁ]) expresses
the academic neoclassical architectural style taught at the _École des Beaux-
Arts_ in Paris. The _style_ "Beaux Arts" is the cumulative product of two-
and-a-half centuries of instruction under the authority, first, of the
_Académie royale d'architecture_ (1671–1793), then, following the French
Revolution of the late 18th century, of the Architecture section of the
_Académie des Beaux-Arts_ (1795– ). The organization under the _Ancien Régime_
of the competition for the "Grand Prix de Rome" in architecture, offering a
chance to study in Rome, imprinted its codes and aesthetic on the course of
instruction, which culminated during the Second Empire (1852–1870) and the
Third Republic that followed. The style of instruction that produced Beaux-
Arts architecture continued without major interruption until 1968.[1]

The Beaux-Arts style heavily influenced the architecture of the United States
in the period from 1880 to 1920.[2] In contrast, many European architects of
the period 1860–1914 outside France gravitated away from Beaux-Arts and
towards their own national academic centers. Owing to the cultural politics of
the late 19th century, British architects of Imperial classicism followed a
somewhat more independent course, a development culminating in Sir Edwin
Lutyens's New Delhi government buildings.[ _citation needed_ ]

## Contents

  * 1 Training
  * 2 Characteristics
  * 3 History
  * 4 Beaux-Arts architecture by country
    * 4.1 France
      * 4.1.1 Buildings
    * 4.2 United States
      * 4.2.1 Architects
    * 4.3 Canada
      * 4.3.1 Buildings
      * 4.3.2 Architects
    * 4.4 Argentina
      * 4.4.1 Buildings
      * 4.4.2 Architects
    * 4.5 Australia
    * 4.6 Hong Kong
  * 5 See also
  * 6 References
  * 7 Further reading
  * 8 External links

## Training[edit]

The San Francisco War Memorial Opera House of 1932, among the last major
American buildings constructed in the Beaux-Arts style

The Beaux-Arts training emphasized the mainstream examples of Imperial Roman
architecture between Augustus and the Severan emperors, Italian Renaissance,
and French and Italian Baroque models especially, but the training could then
be applied to a broader range of models: Quattrocento Florentine palace fronts
or French late Gothic. American architects of the Beaux-Arts generation often
returned to Greek models, which had a strong local history in the American
Greek Revival of the early 19th century. For the first time, repertories of
photographs supplemented meticulous scale drawings and on-site renderings of
details.

Beaux-Arts training made great use of _agrafes_ , clasps that link one
architectural detail to another; to interpenetration of forms, a Baroque
habit; to "speaking architecture" ( _architecture parlante_ ) in which
supposed appropriateness of symbolism could be taken to literal-minded
extremes.

Beaux-Arts training emphasized the production of quick conceptual sketches,
highly finished perspective presentation drawings, close attention to the
program, and knowledgeable detailing. Site considerations tended toward social
and urbane contexts.[3]

All architects-in-training passed through the obligatory stages—studying
antique models, constructing _analos_ , analyses reproducing Greek or Roman
models, "pocket" studies and other conventional steps—in the long competition
for the few desirable places at the Académie de France à Rome (housed in the
Villa Medici) with traditional requirements of sending at intervals the
presentation drawings called _envois de Rome_.

##  Characteristics[edit]

Beaux-Arts building decoration presenting images of the Roman goddesses Pomona
and Diana. Note the naturalism of the postures and the channeled rustication
of the stonework.

Beaux-Arts architecture depended on sculptural decoration along conservative
modern lines, employing French and Italian Baroque and Rococo formulas
combined with an impressionistic finish and realism. In the façade shown to
the right, Diana grasps the cornice she sits on in a natural action typical of
Beaux-Arts integration of sculpture with architecture.

Slightly overscaled details, bold sculptural supporting consoles, rich deep
cornices, swags and sculptural enrichments in the most bravura finish the
client could afford gave employment to several generations of architectural
modellers and carvers of Italian and Central European backgrounds. A sense of
appropriate idiom at the craftsman level supported the design teams of the
first truly modern architectural offices.

Though the Beaux-Arts style embodies an approach to a regenerated spirit
within the grand traditions rather than a set of motifs, principal
characteristics of Beaux-Arts architecture included:

Alternating male and female mascarons decorate keystones on the San Francisco
City Hall

  * Flat roof[2]
  * Rusticated and raised first story[2]
  * Hierarchy of spaces, from "noble spaces"—grand entrances and staircases—to utilitarian ones
  * Arched windows[2]
  * Arched and pedimented doors[2]
  * Classical details:[2] references to a synthesis of historicist styles and a tendency to eclecticism; fluently in a number of "manners"
  * Symmetry[2]
  * Statuary,[2] sculpture (bas-relief panels, figural sculptures, sculptural groups), murals, mosaics, and other artwork, all coordinated in theme to assert the identity of the building
  * Classical architectural details:[2] balustrades, pilasters, garlands, cartouches, acroteria, with a prominent display of richly detailed clasps ( _agrafes_ ), brackets and supporting consoles
  * Subtle polychromy

## History[edit]

|

**This section needs expansion**.  You can help by adding to it. _(November
2010)_  
  
---|---  
  
On the eve of World War I the Beaux-Arts style began to find major competitors
among the architects of Modernism and the nascent International Style. The
prestige of the École gave the _style_ "Beaux-Arts" a second wind in combining
the new manner with the traditional training.

##  Beaux-Arts architecture by country[edit]

### France[edit]

Pont Alexandre III and Grand Palais in Paris.

|

**This section needs expansion**.  You can help by adding to it. _(June 2008)_  
  
---|---  
  
####  Buildings[edit]

  * École des Beaux-Arts
  * LeFuel wings of the Louvre
  * Palais Garnier
  * Palais du Trocadéro
  * Gare d'Orsay
  * Grand Palais, Petit Palais, and the Pont Alexandre III

The Basilica of St. Mary in Minneapolis is the United States' first basilica.
Franco-American architect Emmanuel Louis Masqueray designed it, and it opened
in 1914.[4]

### United States[edit]

Grand Central Terminal (Station opened 1871, Terminal 1913), New York City

The Singer Building in Manhattan was the tallest building in the world at the
time of its completion in 1908. It was demolished in 1968.

The first American architect to attend the École des Beaux-Arts was Richard
Morris Hunt, followed by Henry Hobson Richardson. They were followed by an
entire generation. Henry Hobson Richardson absorbed Beaux-Arts lessons in
massing and spatial planning, then applied them to Romanesque architectural
models that were not characteristic of the Beaux-Arts repertory. His Beaux-
Arts training taught him to transcend slavish copying and recreate in the
essential fully digested and idiomatic manner of his models. Richardson
evolved a highly personal style (Richardsonian Romanesque) freed of
historicism that was influential in early Modernism.[5]

The "White City" of the World's Columbian Exposition of 1893 in Chicago was a
triumph of the movement and a major impetus for the short-lived City Beautiful
movement in the United States.[6] Beaux-Arts city planning, with its Baroque
insistence on vistas punctuated by symmetry, eye-catching monuments, axial
avenues, uniform cornice heights, a harmonious "ensemble," and a somewhat
theatrical nobility and accessible charm, embraced ideals that the ensuing
Modernist movement decried or just dismissed.[7] The first American university
to institute a Beaux-Arts curriculum is the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology (MIT) in 1893, when the French architect Constant-Désiré
Despradelles was brought to MIT to teach. The Beaux-Arts curriculum was
subsequently begun at Columbia University, the University of Pennsylvania, and
elsewhere.[8] From 1916, the Beaux-Arts Institute of Design in New York City
schooled architects, painters, and sculptors to work as active collaborators.

The Iowa, a Beaux-Arts condominium in Washington, D.C.

Numerous American university campuses were designed in the Beaux-Arts,
notably: Columbia University, (commissioned in 1896), designed by McKim, Mead,
and White; the University of California, Berkeley (commissioned in 1898),
designed by John Galen Howard; the United States Naval Academy (built
1901-1908), designed by Ernest Flagg; the campus of MIT (commissioned in
1913), designed by William W. Bosworth, Carnegie Mellon University
(commissioned in 1904), designed by Henry Hornbostel; and the University of
Texas (commissioned in 1931), designed by Paul Philippe Cret.

Though Beaux-Arts architecture of the twentieth century might on its surface
appear out of touch with the modern age, steel-frame construction and other
modern innovations in engineering techniques and materials were often
embraced, as in the 1914–1916 construction of the Carolands Chateau south of
San Francisco (which was built with a consciousness of the devastating 1906
earthquake). The noted Spanish structural engineer Rafael Guastavino
(1842–1908), famous for his vaultings, known as Guastavino tile work, designed
vaults in dozens of Beaux-Arts buildings in the Boston, New York, and
elsewhere. Beaux-Arts architecture also brought a civic face to the railroad.
(Chicago's Union Station, Detroit's Michigan Central Station, Jacksonville's
Union Terminal and Washington, DC's Union Station are famous American examples
of this style.) Cincinnati has a number of notable Beaux-Arts style buildings,
including the Hamilton County Memorial Building in the Over-the-Rhine
neighborhood, and the former East End Carnegie Library in the Columbia-
Tusculum neighborhood. An ecclesiastical variant on the Beaux-Arts style is
Minneapolis' Basilica of St. Mary,[9] the first basilica in the United States,
which was designed by Franco-American architect Emmanuel Louis Masqueray
(1861–1917) and opened in 1914. Two of the best American examples of the
Beaux-Arts tradition stand within a few blocks of each other: Grand Central
Terminal and the New York Public Library. Another prominent U.S. example of
the style is the largest academic dormitory in the world, Bancroft Hall at the
abovementioned United States Naval Academy.[10]

#### Architects[edit]

Andrew Mellon Building

In the late 1800s, during the years when Beaux-Arts architecture was at a peak
in France, Americans were one of the largest groups of foreigners in Paris.
Many of them were architects and students of architecture who brought this
style back to America.[11] The following individuals, students of the École
des Beaux-Arts, are identified as creating work characteristic of the Beaux-
Arts style within the United States:

  * Otto Eugene Adams
  * William A. Boring
  * William W. Bosworth
  * Arthur Brown Jr
  * Daniel Burnham
  * Carrère and Hastings
  * James Edwin Ruthven Carpenter, Jr.
  * Paul Philippe Cret
  * Edward Bennett Dougherty
  * Ernest Flagg
  * Robert W. Gibson
  * C. P. H. Gilbert
  * Cass Gilbert
  * Thomas Hastings
  * Raymond Hood
  * Henry Hornbostel
  * Richard Morris Hunt
  * Albert Kahn
  * Charles Klauder
  * Ellamae Ellis League
  * Electus D. Litchfield
  * Austin W. Lord
  * William Rutherford Mead
  * Julia Morgan
  * Charles Follen McKim
  * Harry B. Mulliken
  * Kenneth MacKenzie Murchison
  * Henry Orth
  * Theodore Wells Pietsch I
  * Willis Polk
  * John Russell Pope
  * Arthur Wallace Rice
  * Henry Hobson Richardson
  * Francis Palmer Smith
  * Edward Lippincott Tilton
  * Evarts Tracy of Tracy and Swartwout
  * Horace Trumbauer
  * Enoch Hill Turnock
  * Whitney Warren
  * Stanford White

The prominent architectural firm of McKim, Mead & White designed many well-
known Beaux-Arts buildings.[12]

### Canada[edit]

Beaux-Arts was very prominent in public buildings in Canada in the early 20th
century. Notably all three prairie provinces' legislative buildings are in
this style.

#### Buildings[edit]

Government Conference Centre, Ottawa

Manitoba Legislative Building, Winnipeg

The Great Hall of Toronto's Union Station

  * The NHL sponsored Hockey Hall of Fame (formerly a branch of the Bank of Montreal), Toronto (1885)
  * London and Lancashire Life Building, Montreal (1898)
  * Old Montreal Stock Exchange Building (1903)
  * Alden Hall, Meadville (1905)
  * Royal Alexandra Theatre, Toronto (1906)
  * Sun Tower, Vancouver (1912)
  * Montreal Museum of Fine Arts, Montreal (1912)
  * Government Conference Centre, Ottawa (originally a railway station by Ross and Macdonald, (1912)
  * Saskatchewan Legislative Building, Regina (1912)
  * Alberta Legislative Building, Edmonton (1913)
  * Manitoba Legislative Building, Winnipeg, (1920)
  * Millennium Centre, Winnipeg, (1920)
  * Commemorative Arch, Royal Military College of Canada, in Kingston, Ontario (1923)
  * Bank of Nova Scotia, Ottawa (1923–24)
  * Union Station, Toronto (1913–27)
  * Dominion Public Building, Toronto (1935)
  * Dominion Square Building, Montreal (1930)
  * Canada Life Building, Toronto (1931)
  * Sun Life Building, Montreal (1913–1931)
  * Mount Royal Chalet, Montreal (1932)
  * Supreme Court of Canada Building, Ottawa (1938–1946)

#### Architects[edit]

  * William Sutherland Maxwell
  * John M. Lyle
  * Ross and Macdonald
  * Sproatt & Rolph
  * Pearson and Darling
  * Ernest Cormier
  * Jean-Omer Marchand fr:Jean-Omer Marchand

### Argentina[edit]

From 1880 the so-called Generation of '80 came to power, who were admirers of
France as a model republic and for cultural and esthetic tastes. Buenos Aires
is a center of Beaux-Arts architecture which continued to be built as late as
the 1950s.[13]

#### Buildings[edit]

Front square of Palace of the Argentine National Congress

  * 1898: Buenos Aires House of Culture, Buenos Aires
  * 1906: Palace of the Argentine National Congress, Buenos Aires
  * 1908: Teatro Colón, Buenos Aires
  * 1931: Palacio de la Legislatura de la Ciudad de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires
  * 1910: Club Mar del Plata (es), Mar del Plata (burned down in 1961)
  * 1890: Estación Mar del Plata Sud (es), Mar del Plata (the train station was closed in 1949, and was later damaged by fire. Although it was renovated, it is today much less adorned)
  * 1910: Tucumán Government Palace, San Miguel de Tucumán
  * 1892: The Water Company Palace, Buenos Aires
  * 1889: Pabellón Argentino (es) (Argentine pavilion from the 1889 Paris Exposition Universelle), taken down and reconstructed in Buenos Aires (demolished in 1932)
  * 1929: Estrugamou Building, Buenos Aires

#### Architects[edit]

  * Alejandro Bustillo
  * Julio Dormal
  * Gainza y Agote
  * Alejandro Christophersen
  * Edouard Le Monnier
  * León Dourge (later an exponent of rationalism)
  * Paul Pater
  * Jacques Dunant
  * Norbert Maillart
  * Carlos Thays (landscape architect)

  * Beaux-Arts architecture of Argentina
  * 1898: Buenos Aires House of Culture, Buenos Aires

  * 1906: Palacio del Congreso Nacional, Buenos Aires

  * 1908: Teatro Colón, Buenos Aires

  * 1931: Palacio de la Legislatura, Buenos Aires

  * 1910: Club Mar del Plata, Mar del Plata (burned down in 1961)

  * 1890: Mar del Plata Train Station (closed in 1949, burned down and was later renovated but is much plainer)

  * 1910: Tucumán Government Palace, San Miguel de Tucumán

  * 1892: The Water Company Palace, Buenos Aires

  * 1889: Argentine pavilion from the 1889 Paris Exposition Universelle, taken down and reconstructed in Buenos Aires (demolished in 1932)

  * 1929: Estrugamou Building, Buenos Aires

### Australia[edit]

The General Post Office, Perth

Port Authority building in Melbourne

Several Australian cities have some significant examples of the style, where
it was typically applied to large solid looking public office buildings and
banks during the 1920s.

  * National Theatre, Melbourne (1920)
  * General Post Office building, Forrest Place, Perth (1923)
  * Argus Building. LaTrobe Street, Melbourne (1927)
  * Emily McPherson College of Domestic Economy, Melbourne (1927)
  * Commonwealth Bank building, Martin Place, Sydney (1928)
  * Perpetual Trustee Company Limited, Hunter Street, Sydney (1916)
  * Westpac Bank Building, Elizabeth Street, Brisbane (1928)
  * Port Authority building, Melbourne (1928)
  * Former Mail Exchange Building, Melbourne
  * Herald Weekly Times Building. Flinders Street, Melbourne
  * Commonwealth Bank building, Forrest Place, Perth (1933)

### Hong Kong[edit]

  * Pedder Building, Central, Hong Kong 1923
  * Peak Tram Office, 1 Lugard Road 1927

## See also[edit]

  * Second Empire architecture

  * Architecture portal
  * France portal
  * Visual arts portal

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Robin Middleton, Editor. _The Beaux-Arts and Nineteenth-century French Architecture_. (London: Thames and Hudson, 1982).
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ Klein and Fogle, _Clues to American Architecture_ , 1986, p.38, ISBN 0-913515-18-3.
  3. **^** Arthur Drexler, editor, _The Architecture of the École des Beaux-Arts_. New York: Museum of Modern Art, 1977.
  4. **^** "The Basilica | The Basilica of Saint Mary". _www.mary.org_. Retrieved  2017-11-09. 
  5. **^** James Philip Noffsinger. _The Influence of the École des Beaux-arts on the Architects of the United States_ (Washington DC., Catholic University of America Press, 1955).
  6. **^** Howe, Jeffery. "Beaux-Arts Architecture in America". _www.bc.edu_. Retrieved  2017-08-01. 
  7. **^** Chafee, Richard. _The Architecture of the École des Beaux-Arts_. New York: Museum of Modern Art, 1977.
  8. **^** Mark Jarzombek. _Designing MIT: Bosworth's New Tech_. Northeastern University Press, 2004.
  9. **^** "Architecture | The Basilica of Saint Mary". _www.mary.org_. Retrieved  2017-11-09. 
  10. **^** _National Register of Historic Places Nomination Form_ [page  3]. National Park Service of the U.S. Department of the Interior, September 1977, as recorded to the Maryland State Archives, December 2, 1992. Accessed January 14, 2016.
  11. **^** Beaux-arts Architecture in New York: A Photographic Guide Front Cover Courier Dover Publications, 1988 (page vii-viii)
  12. **^** Richard Guy Wilson. _McKim, Mead & White, Architects_ (New York: Rizzoli, 1983)
  13. **^** _Encyclopedia of Twentieth Century Architecture_ , Stephen Sennott (ed.), p. 186

## Further reading[edit]

  * Reed, Henry Hope and Edmund V. Gillon Jr. 1988. _Beaux-Arts Architecture in New York: A Photographic Guide_ (Dover Publications: Mineola NY)
  * United States. Commission of Fine Arts. 1978, 1988 (2 vols.). _Sixteenth Street Architecture_ (The Commission of Fine Arts: Washington, D.C.: The Commission)  – profiles of Beaux-Arts architecture in Washington D.C. SuDoc FA 1.2: AR 2.

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Beaux-Arts architecture**_.  
---|---  
  
  * New York architecture images, Beaux-Arts gallery
  * Advertisement film about the usage of the Beaux Arts style as a reference in kitchen design
  * Hallidie Building

  * v
  * t
  * e

Historicism and Revivalism in Western architecture and decorative arts  
  
---  
International |

  * Baroque Revival
  * Beaux-Arts
  * Byzantine Revival
  * Carpenter Gothic
  * Egyptian Revival
  * Gothic Revival
  * Greek Revival / Neo-Grec
  * Moorish Revival
  * Neoclassical
  * New Classical / Neo-Historism
  * Renaissance Revival
    * Châteauesque
    * Italianate
    * Palazzo style
  * Romanesque Revival
  * Second Empire
  * Spanish Colonial Revival
  * Swiss chalet style
  * Vernacular

  
  
France |

  * French Renaissance
  * Henry II style
  * Louis Treize
  * Louis Quatorze
  * Louis Quinze
  * Louis XVI
  * Directoire style
  * Empire style
  * Second Empire
  * Belle Époque
  * Art Nouveau
  * Art Deco

  
  
Germany, Austria-Hungary |

  * Biedermeier
  * Gründerzeit
  * Nazi architecture
  * Resort style
  * Rundbogenstil

  
  
Great Britain |

  * Adam style
  * Bristol Byzantine
  * Edwardian Baroque
  * Indo-Saracenic Revival
    * British India
  * Jacobethan
  * Queen Anne style
  * Regency
  * Scottish baronial style
  * Tudor Revival / Black-and-White Revival

  
  
Greece and Balkans |

  * Mycenaean Revival
  * Serbo-Byzantine Revival

  
  
Italy |

  * Stile umbertino

  
  
Mexico |

  * Mayan Revival

  
  
Netherlands |

  * Traditionalist School

  
  
Nordic countries |

  * National Romantic style
  * Dragon Style

  
  
Portugal |

  * Pombaline
  * Neo-Manueline
  * Soft Portuguese style

  
  
Russian Empire and USSR |

  * Byzantine Revival
  * Russian Revival
  * Stalinist architecture

  
  
Spain |

  * Neo-Mudéjar

  
  
United States |

  * Jeffersonian architecture
  * American Renaissance
  * Collegiate Gothic
  * Colonial Revival
  * Federal style
  * Greco Deco
  * Mediterranean Revival
  * Mission Revival
  * Polish Cathedral style
  * Pueblo Revival
  * Queen Anne style
  * Richardsonian Romanesque
  * Territorial Revival

  
  
Modern architecture »  
  
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Beaux-
Arts_architecture&oldid=814541729"

Categories:

  * Beaux-Arts architecture
  * Architectural styles
  * Neoclassical architecture
  * Neoclassical movements
  * Revival architectural styles
  * 19th-century architectural styles
  * 20th-century architectural styles

Hidden categories:

  * Use dmy dates from January 2011
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from September 2017
  * Articles to be expanded from November 2010
  * All articles to be expanded
  * Articles using small message boxes
  * Articles to be expanded from June 2008
  * Interlanguage link template link number

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Italiano
  * ქართული
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Svenska
  * ไทย
  * Українська
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 9 December 2017, at 12:20.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

