

# Behavioral economics

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

**Behavioral economics** , along with the related sub-field **behavioral
finance** , studies the effects of psychological, social, cognitive, and
emotional factors on the economic decisions of individuals and institutions
and the consequences for market prices, returns, and resource allocation,
although not always that narrowly, but also more generally, of the impact of
different kinds of behavior, in different environments of varying experimental
values.[1]

Risk tolerance is a crucial factor in personal financial decision making. Risk
tolerance is defined as individuals' willingness to engage in a financial
activity whose outcome is uncertain.[2]

Behavioral economics is primarily concerned with the bounds of rationality of
economic agents. Behavioral models typically integrate insights from
psychology, neuroscience, and microeconomic theory; in so doing, these
behavioral models cover a range of concepts, methods, and fields.[3][4]

The study of behavioral economics includes how market decisions are made and
the mechanisms that drive public choice. The use of the term "behavioral
economics" in U.S. scholarly papers has increased in the past few years, as
shown by a recent study.[5]

In 2017, economist Richard Thaler was awarded the Nobel Memorial Prize in
Economic Sciences for his contributions to behavioral economics and his
pioneering work in establishing that people are predictably irrational in ways
that defy economic theory.[6]

There are three prevalent themes in behavioral finances:[7]

  * Heuristics: Humans make 95% of their decisions using mental shortcuts or rules of thumb.
  * Framing: The collection of anecdotes and stereotypes that make up the mental emotional filters individuals rely on to understand and respond to events.
  * Market inefficiencies: These include mis-pricings and non-rational decision making.

Economics  
---  
  
A supply and demand diagram, illustrating  
the effects of an increase in demand.  
  
  * Index
  * Outline
  * Category

  
  
  * History
  * Types
  * Classification

  
  
  * History of economics
  * Economic history (academic study)
  * Schools of economics

  * Microeconomics
  * Macroeconomics
  * Methodology
  * Heterodox economics
  * JEL classification codes

  
  
  * Concepts
  * Theory
  * Techniques

  
  
  * Econometrics
  * Economic growth
  * Economic system
  * Experimental economics
  * Mathematical economics
  * Game theory
  * Post-scarcity
  * Market
  * National accounting

  
  
By application  
  
  * Agricultural
  * Behavioral
  * Business
  * Computational
  * Cultural
  * Demographic
  * Development
  * Digitization
  * Ecological
  * Education
  * Environmental
  * Evolutionary
  * Expeditionary
  * Geography
  * Health
  * Industrial organization
  * Information
  * International
  * Knowledge
  * Labour
  * Law
  * Managerial
  * Monetary / Financial
  * Natural resource
  * Organizational
  * Personnel
  * Public / Welfare economics
  * Regional
  * Rural
  * Service
  * Social
  * Urban
  * Welfare

  
  
Lists  
  
  * Economists
  * Publications (journals)

  
  
  * Business and economics portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Prospect theory
    * 1.2 Intertemporal choice
    * 1.3 Other areas of research
  * 2 Criticism
    * 2.1 Responses
  * 3 Applied issues
    * 3.1 Behavioral finance
      * 3.1.1 Quantitative behavioral finance
    * 3.2 Financial models
      * 3.2.1 Criticisms
    * 3.3 Game theory
    * 3.4 Economic reasoning in non-human animals
      * 3.4.1 Non-human animal studies
      * 3.4.2 Labor supply
      * 3.4.3 Demand
    * 3.5 Evolutionary psychology
    * 3.6 Artificial intelligent machines
  * 4 Notable theorists
    * 4.1 Economics
    * 4.2 Psychology
    * 4.3 Finance
  * 5 See also
  * 6 Citations
  * 7 References
  * 8 External links

## History[edit]

During the classical period of economics, microeconomics was closely linked to
psychology. For example, Adam Smith wrote _The Theory of Moral Sentiments_ ,
which proposed psychological explanations of individual behavior, including
concerns about fairness and justice,[8] and Jeremy Bentham wrote extensively
on the psychological underpinnings of utility. However, during the development
of neo-classical economics economists sought to reshape the discipline as a
natural science, deducing economic behavior from assumptions about the nature
of economic agents. They developed the concept of homo economicus, whose
psychology was fundamentally rational.

However, many important neo-classical economists employed more sophisticated
psychological explanations, including Francis Edgeworth, Vilfredo Pareto, and
Irving Fisher. Economic psychology emerged in the 20th century in the works of
Gabriel Tarde,[9] George Katona,[10] and Laszlo Garai.[11] Expected utility
and discounted utility models began to gain acceptance, generating testable
hypotheses about decision-making given uncertainty and intertemporal
consumption, respectively. Observed and repeatable anomalies eventually
challenged those hypotheses, and further steps were taken by the Nobel Prize-
winner Maurice Allais, for example, in setting out the Allais paradox, a
decision problem he first presented in 1953 that contradicts the expected
utility hypothesis.

Daniel Kahneman, winner of the 2002 Nobel Prize in economics

In the 1960s cognitive psychology began to shed more light on the brain as an
information processing device (in contrast to behaviorist models).
Psychologists in this field, such as Ward Edwards,[12] Amos Tversky, and
Daniel Kahneman began to compare their cognitive models of decision-making
under risk and uncertainty to economic models of rational behavior. In
mathematical psychology, there is a longstanding interest in the transitivity
of preference and what kind of measurement scale utility constitutes.[13]

### Prospect theory[edit]

In 1979, Kahneman and Tversky wrote _Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision
Under Risk_ , that used cognitive psychology to explain various divergences of
economic decision making from neo-classical theory.[14] Prospect theory has
two stages: an editing stage and an evaluation stage.

In the editing stage, risky situations are simplified using various heuristics
of choice. In the evaluation phase, risky alternatives are evaluated using
various psychological principles that include the following:

  1. Reference dependence: When evaluating outcomes, the decision maker has in mind a "reference level". Outcomes are then compared to the reference point and classified as "gains" if greater than the reference point and "losses" if less than the reference point.
  2. Loss aversion: Losses bite more than equivalent gains. In their 1979 paper published in Econometrica, Kahneman and Tversky found the median coefficient of loss aversion to be about 2.25, i.e., losses bite about 2.25 times more than equivalent gains.[ _verification needed_ ]
  3. Non-linear probability weighting: Evidence indicates that decision makers overweight small probabilities and underweight large probabilities—this gives rise to the inverse-S shaped "probability weighting function".
  4. Diminishing sensitivity to gains and losses: As the size of the gains and losses relative to the reference point increase in absolute value, the marginal effect on the decision maker's utility or satisfaction falls.

Prospect theory is able to explain everything that the two main existing
decision theories—expected utility theory and rank dependent utility
theory—can explain. However, the converse is false. Prospect theory has been
used to explain a range of phenomena that existing decision theories have
great difficulty in explaining. These include backward bending labor supply
curves, asymmetric price elasticities, tax evasion, co-movement of stock
prices and consumption, etc.

In 1992, in the Journal of Risk and Uncertainty, Kahneman and Tversky gave
their revised account of prospect theory that they called cumulative prospect
theory.[ _verification needed_ ] The new theory eliminated the editing phase
in prospect theory and focused just on the evaluation phase. Its main feature
was that it allowed for non-linear probability weighting in a cumulative
manner, which was originally suggested in John Quiggin's rank dependent
utility theory.

Psychological traits such as overconfidence, projection bias, and the effects
of limited attention are now part of the theory. Other developments include a
conference at the University of Chicago,[15] a special behavioral economics
edition of the _Quarterly Journal of Economics_ ("In Memory of Amos Tversky"),
and Kahneman's 2002 Nobel Prize for having "integrated insights from
psychological research into economic science, especially concerning human
judgment and decision-making under uncertainty".[16]

###  Intertemporal choice[edit]

See also: Time inconsistency

Behavioral economics has also been applied to intertemporal choice.
Intertemporal choice is defined as making a decision and having the effects of
such decision happening in a different time. Intertemporal choice behavior is
largely inconsistent, as exemplified by George Ainslie's hyperbolic
discounting—one of the prominently studied observations—and further developed
by David Laibson, Ted O'Donoghue, and Matthew Rabin. Hyperbolic discounting
describes the tendency to discount outcomes in the near future more than for
outcomes in the far future. This pattern of discounting is dynamically
inconsistent (or time-inconsistent), and therefore inconsistent with basic
models of rational choice, since the rate of discount between time _t_ and
_t+1_ will be low at time _t-1_ when _t_ is the near future, but high at time
_t_ when _t_ is the present and time _t+1_ is the near future.

The pattern can also be explained through models of sub-additive discounting
that distinguish the delay and interval of discounting: people are less
patient (per-time-unit) over shorter intervals regardless of when they occur.

### Other areas of research[edit]

Other branches of behavioral economics enrich the model of the utility
function without implying inconsistency in preferences. Ernst Fehr, Armin
Falk, and Matthew Rabin studied "fairness", "inequity aversion", and
"reciprocal altruism", weakening the neoclassical assumption of "perfect
selfishness". This work is particularly applicable to wage setting. The work
on "intrinsic motivation" by Gneezy and Rustichini and "identity" by Akerlof
and Kranton assumes that agents derive utility from adopting personal and
social norms in addition to conditional expected utility. According to
Aggarwal, in addition to behavioral deviations from rational equilibrium,
markets are also likely to suffer from lagged responses, search costs,
externalities of the commons, and other frictions making it difficult to
disentangle behavioral effects in market behavior.[17]

"Conditional expected utility" is a form of reasoning where the individual has
an illusion of control, and calculates the probabilities of external events
and hence their utility as a function of their own action, even when they have
no causal ability to affect those external events.[18][19]

Behavioral economics caught on among the general public with the success of
books such as Dan Ariely's _Predictably Irrational._ Practitioners of the
discipline have studied quasi-public policy topics such as broadband
mapping.[20][21]

Applications for behavioral economics include the modeling of the consumer
decision-making process for applications in artificial intelligence and
machine learning. The Silicon Valley-based start-up Singularities is using the
AGM postulates proposed by Alchourrón, Gärdenfors, and Makinson—the
formalization of the concepts of beliefs and change for rational entities—in a
symbolic logic to create a "machine learning and deduction engine that uses
the latest data science and big data algorithms in order to generate the
content and conditional rules (counterfactuals) that capture customer's
behaviors and beliefs".[22]

## Criticism[edit]

Critics of behavioral economics typically stress the rationality of economic
agents.[23] They contend that experimentally observed behavior has limited
application to market situations, as learning opportunities and competition
ensure at least a close approximation of rational behavior.

Others note that cognitive theories, such as prospect theory, are models of
decision making, not generalized economic behavior, and are only applicable to
the sort of once-off decision problems presented to experiment participants or
survey respondents.[ _citation needed_ ]

A notable concern is that despite a great deal of rhetoric, there is no real
consistent behavioral theory yet. Behavioral economics scholars also have no
unified theory. Until that happens, it is a collection of loosely related or
unrelated observations. What is missing is a foundational behavioral theory
that can be tested in many domains as a competitor to neoclassical theory.[
_citation needed_ ]

Traditional economists are also skeptical of the experimental and survey-based
techniques which behavioral economics uses extensively. Economists typically
stress revealed preferences over stated preferences (from surveys) in the
determination of economic value. Experiments and surveys are at risk of
systemic biases, strategic behavior and lack of incentive compatibility.[
_citation needed_ ]

### Responses[edit]

Rabin[24] dismisses these criticisms, claiming that consistent results are
typically obtained in multiple situations and geographies and can produce good
theoretical insight. Behavioral economists have also responded to these
criticisms by focusing on field studies rather than lab experiments. Some
economists see a fundamental schism between experimental economics and
behavioral economics, but prominent behavioral and experimental economists
tend to share techniques and approaches in answering common questions. For
example, behavioral economists are investigating neuroeconomics, which is
entirely experimental and cannot yet be verified in the field.[ _citation
needed_ ]

Other proponents of behavioral economics note that neoclassical models often
fail to predict outcomes in real world contexts. Behavioral insights can
influence neoclassical models. Behavioral economists note that these revised
models not only reach the same correct predictions as the traditional models,
but also correctly predict some outcomes where the traditional models failed.[
_citation needed_ ] The epistemological, ontological, and methodological
components of behavioral economics are increasingly debated, in particular by
historians of economics and economic methodologists.[25]

According to some researchers,[26] when studying the mechanisms that form the
basis of decision-making, especially financial decision-making, it is
necessary to recognize that most decisions are made under stress[27] because,
"Stress is the nonspecific body response to any demands presented to it".[28]

From a biological point of view, human behaviors are essentially the same
during crises accompanied by stock market crashes and during bubble growth
when share prices exceed historic highs. During those periods, most market
participants see something new for themselves, and this inevitably induces a
stress response in them with accompanying changes in their endocrine profiles
and motivations. The result is quantitative and qualitative changes in
behavior. However, this is only one example of where behavior affecting
economics and finance can be observed and variably-contrasted using behavioral
economics, and it is a mistake to think of its usefulness as only applying
within such environments tested-in or -of conditions similar to stock
exchanges specifically. Also, often selfish-reasoning, 'adult behaviors', and
similar, can be identified within criminal-concealment(s), and legal-
deficiencies and neglect of different types can be observed and discovered.
Awareness of indirect consequence (or lack of), at least in potential with
different experimental models and methods, can be used as well—behavioral
economics' potential uses are broad, but its reliability need scrutiny. An
underestimation of the role of novelty as a stressor is the primary
shortcoming of current approaches for market research. So, it is necessary to
account for the biologically determined diphasisms of human behavior in
everyday low-stress conditions and in response to stressors.[26]

## Applied issues[edit]

### Behavioral finance[edit]

The central issue in behavioral finance is explaining why market participants
make irrational systematic errors contrary to assumption of rational market
participants.[1] Such errors affect prices and returns, creating market
inefficiencies. The study of behavioral finance also investigates how other
participants take advantage (arbitrage) of such errors and market
inefficiencies.

Behavioral finance highlights inefficiencies, such as under- or over-reactions
to information, as causes of market trends and, in extreme cases, of bubbles
and crashes. Such reactions have been attributed to limited investor
attention, overconfidence, overoptimism, mimicry (herding instinct) and noise
trading. Technical analysts consider behavioral finance to be behavioral
economics' "academic cousin" and the theoretical basis for technical
analysis.[29]

Other key observations include the asymmetry between decisions to acquire or
keep resources, known as the "bird in the bush" paradox, and loss aversion,
the unwillingness to let go of a valued possession. Loss aversion appears to
manifest itself in investor behavior as a reluctance to sell shares or other
equity if doing so would result in a nominal loss.[30] It may also help
explain why housing prices rarely/slowly decline to market clearing levels
during periods of low demand.

Benartzi and Thaler, applying a version of prospect theory, claim to have
solved the equity premium puzzle, something conventional finance models so far
have been unable to do.[31] Experimental finance applies the experimental
method, e.g., creating an artificial market through some kind of simulation
software to study people's decision-making process and behavior in financial
markets.

#### Quantitative behavioral finance[edit]

Quantitative behavioral finance uses mathematical and statistical methodology
to understand behavioral biases. In marketing research, a study shows little
evidence that escalating biases impact marketing decisions.[32] Leading
contributors include Gunduz Caginalp (Editor of the Journal of Behavioral
Finance from 2001–04), and collaborators include 2002 Nobel Laureate Vernon
Smith, David Porter, Don Balenovich,[33] Vladimira Ilieva and Ahmet Duran,[34]
and Ray Sturm.[35]

### Financial models[edit]

Some financial models used in money management and asset valuation incorporate
behavioral finance parameters. Examples:

  * Thaler's model of price reactions to information, with three phases (underreaction, adjustment, and overreaction), creating a price trend.

    One characteristic of overreaction is that average returns following announcements of good news is lower than following bad news. In other words, overreaction occurs if the market reacts too strongly or for too long to news, thus requiring adjustment in the opposite direction. As a result, outperforming assets in one period are likely to underperform in the following period. This also applies to customers' irrational purchasing habits.[36]

  * The stock image coefficient.

#### Criticisms[edit]

Critics such as Eugene Fama typically support the efficient-market hypothesis.
They contend that behavioral finance is more a collection of anomalies than a
true branch of finance and that these anomalies are either quickly priced out
of the market or explained by appealing to market microstructure arguments.
However, individual cognitive biases are distinct from social biases; the
former can be averaged out by the market, while the other can create positive
feedback loops that drive the market further and further from a "fair price"
equilibrium. Similarly, for an anomaly to violate market efficiency, an
investor must be able to trade against it and earn abnormal profits; this is
not the case for many anomalies.[37]

A specific example of this criticism appears in some explanations of the
equity premium puzzle. It is argued that the cause is entry barriers (both
practical and psychological) and that returns between stocks and bonds should
equalize as electronic resources open up the stock market to more traders.[38]
In response, others contend that most personal investment funds are managed
through superannuation funds, minimizing the effect of these putative entry
barriers.[ _citation needed_ ] In addition, professional investors and fund
managers seem to hold more bonds than one would expect given return
differentials.[ _citation needed_ ]

### Game theory[edit]

Main article: Behavioral game theory

Behavioral game theory, invented by Colin Camerer, analyzes interactive
strategic decisions and behavior using the methods of game theory,[39]
experimental economics, and experimental psychology. Experiments include
testing deviations from typical simplifications of economic theory such as the
independence axiom[40] and neglect of altruism,[41] fairness,[42] and framing
effects.[43] On the positive side, the method has been applied to interactive
learning[44] and social preferences.[45] As a research program, the subject is
a development of the last three decades.[46]

### Economic reasoning in non-human animals[edit]

A handful of comparative psychologists have attempted to demonstrate quasi-
economic reasoning in non-human animals. Early attempts along these lines
focus on the behavior of rats and pigeons. These studies draw on the tenets of
comparative psychology, where the main goal is to discover analogs to human
behavior in experimentally-tractable non-human animals. They are also
methodologically similar to the work of Ferster and Skinner.[47]
Methodological similarities aside, early researchers in non-human economics
deviate from behaviorism in their terminology. Although such studies are set
up primarily in an operant conditioning chamber using food rewards for pecking
/bar-pressing behavior, the researchers describe pecking and bar-pressing not
in terms of reinforcement and stimulus-response relationships but instead in
terms of work, demand, budget, and labor. Recent studies have adopted a
slightly different approach, taking a more evolutionary perspective, comparing
economic behavior of humans to a species of non-human primate, the capuchin
monkey.[48]

#### Non-human animal studies[edit]

Many early studies of non-human economic reasoning were performed on rats and
pigeons in an operant conditioning chamber. These studies looked at things
like peck rate (in the case of the pigeon) and bar-pressing rate (in the case
of the rat) given certain conditions of reward. Early researchers claim, for
example, that response pattern (pecking/bar-pressing rate) is an appropriate
analogy to human labor supply.[49] Researchers in this field advocate for the
appropriateness of using animal economic behavior to understand the elementary
components of human economic behavior.[50] In a paper by Battalio, Green, and
Kagel,[49] they write,

> Space considerations do not permit a detailed discussion of the reasons why
economists should take seriously the investigation of economic theories using
nonhuman subjects....[Studies of economic behavior in non-human animals]
provide a laboratory for identifying, testing, and better understanding
general laws of economic behavior. Use of this laboratory is predicated on the
fact that behavior as well as structure vary continuously across species, and
that principles of economic behavior would be unique among behavioral
principles if they did not apply, with some variation, of course, to the
behavior of nonhumans.

#### Labor supply[edit]

The typical laboratory environment to study labor supply in pigeons is set up
as follows. Pigeons are first deprived of food. Since the animals become
hungry, food becomes highly desired. The pigeons are then placed in an operant
conditioning chamber and through orienting and exploring the environment of
the chamber they discover that by pecking a small disk located on one side of
the chamber, food is delivered to them. In effect, pecking behavior becomes
reinforced, as it is associated with food. Before long, the pigeon pecks at
the disk (or stimulus) regularly.

In this circumstance, the pigeon is said to "work" for the food by pecking.
The food, then, is thought of as the currency. The value of the currency can
be adjusted in several ways, including the amount of food delivered, the rate
of food delivery and the type of food delivered (some foods are more desirable
than others).

Economic behavior similar to that observed in humans is discovered when the
hungry pigeons stop working/work less when the reward is reduced. Researchers
argue that this is similar to labor supply behavior in humans. That is, like
humans (who, even in need, will only work so much for a given wage), the
pigeons demonstrate decreases in pecking (work) when the reward (value) is
reduced.[49]

#### Demand[edit]

In human economics, a typical demand curve has negative slope. This means that
as the price of a certain good increases, the amount that consumers are
willing and able to purchase decreases. Researchers studying the demand curves
of non-human animals, such as rats, also find downward slopes.

Researchers have studied demand in rats in a manner distinct from studying
labor supply in pigeons. Specifically, in an operant conditioning chamber
containing rats as experimental subjects, we require them to press a bar,
instead of pecking a small disk, to receive a reward. The reward can be food
(reward pellets), water, or a commodity drink such as cherry cola. Unlike in
previous pigeon studies, where the work analog was pecking and the monetary
analog was reward, the work analog in this experiment is bar-pressing. Under
these circumstances, the researchers claim that changing the number of bar
presses required to obtain a commodity item is analogous to changing the price
of a commodity item in human economics.[51]

In effect, results of demand studies in non-human animals show that, as the
bar-pressing requirement (cost) increases, the number of times an animal
presses the bar equal to or greater than the bar-pressing requirement
(payment) decreases.

### Evolutionary psychology[edit]

Further information: Evolutionary economics

An evolutionary psychology perspective states that many of the perceived
limitations in rational choice can be explained as being rational in the
context of maximizing biological fitness in the ancestral environment, but not
necessarily in the current one. Thus, when living at subsistence level where a
reduction of resources may result in death, it may have been rational to place
a greater value on preventing losses than on obtaining gains. It may also
explain behavioral differences between groups, such as males being less risk-
averse than females since males have more variable reproductive success than
females. While unsuccessful risk-seeking may limit reproductive success for
both sexes, males may potentially increase their reproductive success from
successful risk-seeking much more than females can.[52]

### Artificial intelligent machines[edit]

Much of the decisions are more and more made either by human beings with the
assistance of artificial intelligent machines or wholly made by these
machines. Tshilidzi Marwala and Evan Hurwitz in their book, [53] studied the
utility of behavioral economics in such situations and concluded that these
intelligent machines reduce the impact of behavioral economics on bounded
rational decision making. In particular, they observed that these intelligent
machines reduce the degree of information asymmetry in the market, improve
decision making and thus making markets more rational.

## Notable theorists[edit]

### Economics[edit]

  * George Akerlof
  * Werner De Bondt
  * Douglas Bernheim[54]
  * Colin Camerer
  * Armin Falk
  * Tshilidzi Marwala
  * Ernst Fehr
  * Simon Gächter
  * Uri Gneezy[55]
  * John A. List
  * George Loewenstein
  * John Quiggin
  * Matthew Rabin
  * Reinhard Selten
  * Herbert A. Simon
  * Vernon L. Smith
  * Robert Sugden[56]
  * Larry Summers
  * Richard Thaler

### Psychology[edit]

  * Dan Ariely[57]
  * Ed Diener
  * Ward Edwards
  * Laszlo Garai
  * Gerd Gigerenzer
  * Daniel Kahneman
  * George Katona
  * Walter Mischel
  * Drazen Prelec
  * Paul Slovic
  * Amos Tversky

### Finance[edit]

  * Malcolm Baker
  * Nicholas Barberis
  * Gunduz Caginalp
  * David Hirshleifer
  * Andrew Lo
  * Michael Mauboussin
  * Terrance Odean
  * Richard L. Peterson
  * Charles Plott
  * Robert Prechter
  * Hersh Shefrin
  * Robert Shiller
  * Andrei Shleifer
  * Robert Vishny

## See also[edit]

  * Adaptive market hypothesis
  * Behavioralism
  * Behavioral operations research
  * Confirmation bias
  * Cultural economics
  * Culture change
  * Economic sociology
  * Emotional bias
  * Fuzzy-trace theory
  * Hindsight bias
  * _Homo reciprocans_
  * Important publications in behavioral economics
  * List of cognitive biases
  * Market sentiment
  * Methodological individualism
  * Nudge theory
  * Observational techniques
  * Praxeology
  * Regret theory
  * Repugnancy costs
  * Socioeconomics
  * Socionomics

##  Citations[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "A Behavioral Framework for Securities Risk". _ssrn.com_. SSRN 2040946 .   Missing or empty `|url=` (help)
  2. **^** Chavali, K., & Mohanraj, M. P. (2016). Impact of Demographic variables and Risk Tolerance on Investment Decisions – An Empirical Analysis. _International Journal of Economics and Financial Issues_ , _6_ (1).
  3. **^** "Search of _behavioural economics_ ".  in Palgrave
  4. **^** Minton, Elizabeth A.; Kahle, Lynn R. (2013). _Belief Systems, Religion, and Behavioral Economics: Marketing in Multicultural Environments_. Business Expert Press. ISBN 978-1-60649-704-3.  
  5. **^** "Behavioral economics in U.S. (antitrust) scholarly papers". _Le Concurrentialiste_.  
  6. **^** Appelbaum, Binyamin (2017-10-09). "Nobel in Economics is Awarded to Richard Thaler". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  2017-11-04. 
  7. **^** Shefrin 2002.
  8. **^** Ashraf, Nava; Camerer, Colin F.; Loewenstein, George (2005). "Adam Smith, Behavioral Economist" (PDF). _Journal of Economic Perspectives_. **19** (3): 131–45. doi:10.1257/089533005774357897.  .
  9. **^** Tarde, G. (1902). "Psychologie économique". 
  10. **^** Katona, George (2011). _The Powerful Consumer: Psychological Studies of the American Economy_. Literary Licensing, LLC. ISBN 978-1-258-21844-7.  
  11. **^** Garai, L. "Reconsidering Identity Economics – Human Well-Being and Governance". 
  12. **^** "Ward Edward Papers". Archival Collections. Archived from the original on 16 April 2008. Retrieved  2008-04-25. 
  13. **^** Luce 2000.
  14. **^** Kahneman 2003.
  15. **^** Hogarth & Reder 1987.
  16. **^** "Nobel Laureates 2002". Nobelprize.org. Archived from the original on 10 April 2008. Retrieved  2008-04-25. 
  17. **^** Aggarwal, Raj (2014). "Animal Spirits in Financial Economics: A Review of Deviations from Economic Rationality". _International Review of Financial Analysis_. **32** (1): 179–87. doi:10.1016/j.irfa.2013.07.018.  
  18. **^** Grafstein R (1995). "Rationality as Conditional Expected Utility Maximization". _Political Psychology_. **16** (1): 63–80. doi:10.2307/3791450. JSTOR 3791450.  
  19. **^** Shafir E, Tversky A (1992). "Thinking through uncertainty: nonconsequential reasoning and choice". _Cognitive Psychology_. **24** (4): 449–74. doi:10.1016/0010-0285(92)90015-T. PMID 1473331.  
  20. **^** "US National Broadband Plan: good in theory". Telco 2.0. March 17, 2010. Retrieved  2010-09-23. ... Sara Wedeman's awful experience with this is instructive.... 
  21. **^** Cook, Gordon; Wedeman, Sara (July 1, 2009). "Connectivity, the Five Freedoms, and Prosperity". Community Broadband Networks. Retrieved 2010-09-23. 
  22. **^** "Singluarities Our Company". Singular Me, LLC. 2017. Retrieved  2017-07-12. ... machine learning and deduction engine that uses the latest data science and big data algorithms in order to generate the content and conditional rules (counterfactuals) that capture customer's behaviors and beliefs.... 
  23. **^** Myagkov; Plott (1997). "Exchange Economies and Loss Exposure: Experiments Exploring Prospect Theory and Competitive Equilibria in Market Environments" (PDF). 
  24. **^** Rabin 1998, pp. 11–46.
  25. **^** "Behavioral Economics | Exploring Economics". Retrieved  2017-10-16. 
  26. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sarapultsev, A.; Sarapultsev, P. (2014). "Novelty, Stress, and Biological Roots in Human Market Behavior". _Behavioral Sciences_. **4** (1): 53–69. doi:10.3390/bs4010053.  
  27. **^** Zhukov, D.A. (2007). _Biologija Povedenija_. _Gumoral’nye Mehanizmy [Biology of Behavior. Humoral Mechanisms];_. St. Petersburg, Russia: Rech.  
  28. **^** Selye, Hans (2013). _Stress in Health and Disease_. Elsevier Science. ISBN 978-1-4831-9221-5.  
  29. **^** Kirkpatrick 2007, p. 49.
  30. **^** Genesove & Mayer 2001.
  31. **^** Benartzi & Thaler 1995.
  32. **^** J. Scott Armstrong, Nicole Coviello and Barbara Safranek (1993). "Escalation Bias: Does It Extend to Marketing?" (PDF). _Journal of the Academy of Marketing Science_. **21** (3): 247–352. doi:10.1177/0092070393213008.  
  33. **^** "Dr. Donald A. Balenovich". Indiana University of Pennsylvania, Mathematics Department.  
  34. **^** "Ahmet Duran". Department of Mathematics, University of Michigan-Ann Arbor.  
  35. **^** "Dr Ray R. Sturm, CPA". College of Business Administration. Archived from the original on September 20, 2006.  
  36. **^** Tang, David (6 May 2013). "Why People Won't Buy Your Product Even Though It's Awesome". Flevy. Retrieved 31 May 2013. 
  37. **^** Fama on Market Efficiency in a Volatile Market Archived March 24, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
  38. **^** See Freeman, 2004 for a review
  39. **^** Auman, Robert. "Game Theory".   in Palgrave
  40. **^** Camerer, Colin; Ho, Teck-Hua (March 1994). "Violations of the betweenness axiom and nonlinearity in probability". _Journal of Risk and Uncertainty_. Springer. **8** (2): 167–96. doi:10.1007/bf01065371.  
  41. **^** Andreoni, James; et al. "Altruism in experiments".  in Palgrave
  42. **^** Young, H. Peyton. "Social norms".   in Palgrave
  43. **^** Camerer, Colin (1997). "Progress in behavioral game theory". _Journal of Economic Perspectives_. Caltech. **11** (4): 172. doi:10.1257/jep.11.4.167.   Pdf version.
  44. **^** Ho, Teck H. (2008). "Individual learning in games".  in Palgrave
  45. **^** Dufwenberg, Martin; Kirchsteiger, Georg (2004). "A Theory of Sequential reciprocity". _Games and Economic Behavior_. **47** (2): 268–98. doi:10.1016/j.geb.2003.06.003.   Gul, Faruk (2008). "Behavioural economics and game theory".  in Palgrave
    * Camerer, Colin F. (2008). "Behavioral game theory".  in Palgrave
  46. **^** Camerer, Colin (2003). _Behavioral game theory: experiments in strategic interaction_. New York, New York Princeton, New Jersey: Russell Sage Foundation Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-09039-9.  
    * Loewenstein, George; Rabin, Matthew (2003). _Advances in Behavioral Economics 1986–2003 papers_. Princeton.  
    * Fudenberg, Drew (2006). "Advancing Beyond Advances in Behavioral Economics". _Journal of Economic Literature_. **44** (3): 694–711. doi:10.1257/jel.44.3.694. JSTOR 30032349.  
    * Crawford, Vincent P. (1997). "Theory and Experiment in the Analysis of Strategic Interaction" (PDF). _Advances in Economics and Econometrics: Theory and Applications_ _. Cambridge: 206–42._ __
    * Shubik, Martin (2002). Aumann and, R.; Hart, S., eds. _Game Theory and Experimental Gaming_. _Handbook of Game Theory with Economic Applications_. **3**. Elsevier. pp.  2327–51. doi:10.1016/S1574-0005(02)03025-4. 
    * Plott, Charles R.; Smith, Vernon l (2002). "45–66". In Aumann and, R.; Hart, S. _Game Theory and Experimental Gaming_. _Handbook of Game Theory with Economic Applications_. **4**. Elsevier. pp.  387–615. doi:10.1016/S1574-0722(07)00121-7. 
    * _Games and Economic Behavior_ (journal), Elsevier. Online
  47. **^** Ferster, C. B.; et al. (1957). _Schedules of Reinforcement_. New York: Appleton-Century-Crofts.  
  48. **^** Chen, M. K.; et al. (2006). "How Basic Are Behavioral Biases? Evidence from Capuchin Monkey Trading Behavior". _Journal of Political Economy_. **114** (3): 517–37. doi:10.1086/503550.  
  49. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Battalio, R. C.; et al. (1981). "Income-Leisure Tradeoffs of Animal Workers". _American Economic Review_. **71** (4): 621–32. JSTOR 1806185.  
  50. **^** Kagel, John H.; Battalio, Raymond C.; Green, Leonard (1995). _Economic Choice Theory: An Experimental Analysis of Animal Behavior_. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 978-0-521-45488-9.  
  51. **^** Kagel, J. H.; et al. (1981). "Demand Curves for Animal Consumers". _Quarterly Journal of Economics_. **96** (1): 1–16. doi:10.2307/2936137. JSTOR 2936137.  
  52. **^** Paul H. Rubin and C. Monica Capra. The evolutionary psychology of economics. In Roberts, S. C. (2011). Roberts, S. Craig, ed. "Applied Evolutionary Psychology". Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199586073.001.0001. ISBN 9780199586073. 
  53. **^** Marwala, Tshilidzi; Hurwitz, Evan (2017). _Artificial Intelligence and Economic Theory: Skynet in the Market_. London: Springer. ISBN 978-3-319-66104-9.  
  54. **^** Bernheim, Douglas; Rangel, Antonio (2008). "Behavioural public economics".  in Palgrave
  55. **^** "Uri Gneezy". _ucsd.edu_.  
  56. **^** "Robert Sugden".  
  57. **^** "Predictably Irrational". Dan Ariely. Archived from the original on 13 March 2008. Retrieved  2008-04-25. 

## References[edit]

  * Ainslie, G. (1975). "Specious Reward: A Behavioral /Theory of Impulsiveness and Impulse Control". _Psychological Bulletin_. **82** (4): 463–96. doi:10.1037/h0076860. PMID 1099599.  
  * Barberis, N.; Shleifer, A.; Vishny, R. (1998). "A Model of Investor Sentiment". _Journal of Financial Economics_. **49** (3): 307–43. doi:10.1016/S0304-405X(98)00027-0. Archived from the original on 20 April 2008. Retrieved  2008-04-25. 
  * Becker, Gary S., Gary S. (1968). "Crime and Punishment: An Economic Approach". _The Journal of Political Economy_. **76** (2): 169–217. doi:10.1086/259394.  
  * Benartzi, Shlomo; Thaler, Richard H. (1995). "Myopic Loss Aversion and the Equity Premium Puzzle". _The Quarterly Journal of Economics_. The MIT Press. **110** (1): 73–92. doi:10.2307/2118511. JSTOR 2118511.  
  * Cunningham, Lawrence A. (2002). "Behavioral Finance and Investor Governance". _Washington & Lee Law Review_. **59** : 767. doi:10.2139/ssrn.255778. ISSN 1942-6658. 
  * Diamond, Peter; Vartiainen, Hannu (2012). _Behavioral Economics and Its Applications_. Princeton University Press. ISBN 1-4008-2914-3.   Description and preview.
  * Daniel, K.; Hirshleifer, D.; Subrahmanyam, A. (1998). "Investor Psychology and Security Market Under- and Overreactions". _Journal of Finance_. **53** (6): 1839–85. doi:10.1111/0022-1082.00077.  
  * Eatwell, John; Milgate, Murray; Newman, Peter, eds. (1988). _The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics_. McMillan. ISBN 978-0-935859-10-2.  
    * Augier, Mie. _Simon, Herbert A. (1916–2001)_.  
    * Bernheim, B. Douglas; Rangel, Antonio. _Behavioral public economics_.  
    * Bloomfield, Robert. _Behavioral finance_.  
    * Simon, Herbert A. _Rationality, bounded_.  
  * Mullainathan, S.; Thaler, R. H. (2001). "Behavioral Economics". _International Encyclopedia of the Social& Behavioral Sciences_. pp.  1094–1100.  Abstract.
  * Garai Laszlo. _Identity Economics – An Alternative Economic Psychology_. 1990–2006.
  * E. McGaughey, 'Behavioural Economics and Labour Law' (2014) LSE Legal Studies Working Paper No. 20/2014
  * Hens, Thorsten; Bachmann, Kremena (2008). _Behavioural Finance for Private Banking_. Wiley Finance Series. ISBN 0-470-77999-3.  
  * Hogarth, R. M.; Reder, M. W. (1987). _Rational Choice: The Contrast between Economics and Psychology_. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 0-226-34857-1.  
  * Kahneman, Daniel; Tversky, Amos (1979). "Prospect Theory: An Analysis of Decision under Risk". _Econometrica_. The Econometric Society. **47** (2): 263–91. doi:10.2307/1914185. JSTOR 1914185.  
  * Kahneman, Daniel; Ed Diener (2003). _Well-being: the foundations of hedonic psychology_. Russell Sage Foundation.  
  * Kirkpatrick, Charles D.; Dahlquist, Julie R. (2007). _Technical Analysis: The Complete Resource for Financial Market Technicians_. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Financial Times Press. ISBN 0-13-153113-1.  
  * Kuran, Timur (1995). _Private Truths, Public Lies: The Social Consequences of Preference Falsification_ , Harvard University Press. Description and chapter-preview links.
  * Luce, R Duncan (2000). _Utility of Gains and Losses: Measurement-theoretical and Experimental Approaches_. Mahwah, New Jersey: Lawrence Erlbaum Publishers. ISBN 0-8058-3460-5.  
  * Plott, Charles R.; Smith, Vernon L. (2008). _Handbook of Experimental Economics Results_. **1**. Elsevier.   Chapter-preview links.
  * Rabin, Matthew (1998). "Psychology and Economics" (PDF). _Journal of Economic Literature_. **36** (1): 11–46. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 27, 2011. 
  * Schelling, Thomas C. (2006). _Micromotives and Macrobehavior_. W. W. Norton. ISBN 978-0-393-06977-8.   Description
  * Shleifer, Andrei (1999). _Inefficient Markets: An Introduction to Behavioral Finance_. New York: Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-829228-7.  
  * Simon, Herbert A. (1987). "Behavioral Economics". _The New Palgrave: A Dictionary of Economics_. **1**. pp.  221–24. 
  * Thaler, Richard H.; Mullainathan, Sendhil (2008). "Behavioral Economics". In David R. Henderson (ed.). _Concise Encyclopedia of Economics_ (2nd ed.). Indianapolis: Library of Economics and Liberty. ISBN 978-0-86597-665-8. OCLC 237794267.  CS1 maint: Extra text: editors list (link)

## External links[edit]

|

  * Book: Finance

  
---|---  
| Wikiquote has quotations related to: _**Behavioral economics**_  
---|---  
  
  * The Behavioral Economics Guide
  * Overview of Behavioral Finance
  * The Institute of Behavioral Finance
  * Stirling Behavioural Science Blog, of the Stirling Behavioural Science Centre at University of Stirling
  * Society for the Advancement of Behavioural Economics
  * Behavioral Economics: Past, Present, Future – Colin F. Camerer and George Loewenstein
  * A History of Behavioural Finance / Economics in Published Research: 1944–1988
  * MSc Behavioural Economics, MSc in Behavioural Economics at the University of Essex
  * Behavioral Economics of Shipping Business

Authority control |

  * NDL: 01154373

  
  
---|---  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Schools of economic thought  
  
---  
Pre-modern |

  * Ancient schools
  * Medieval Islamic
  * Scholasticism

  
  
Early modern |

  * Cameralism
  * Mercantilism
  * Physiocrats
  * School of Salamanca

  
  
Modern |

  * American (National)
  * Anarchist
  * Austrian
  * Birmingham
  * Classical
  * English historical
  * French
  * Georgism
  * German historical
  * Lausanne
  * Malthusian
  * Marginalism
  * Marxian
  * Mutualism
  * Neoclassical
  * Neomercantilism
  * Ricardian
  * Socialist

  
  
20th and 21st century |

  * Behavioral
  * Buddhist
  * Capability approach
  * Carnegie
  * Chicago
  * Circuitism
  * Constitutional
  * Ecological
  * Evolutionary
  * Feminist
  * Freiburg
  * Institutional
  * Keynesian
  * Modern monetary theory
  * Monetarism (Neo-Monetarism)
  * Neo-Keynesian
  * Neo-Malthusian
  * Neo-Marxian
  * Neo-Ricardian
  * New classical
  * New institutional
  * New Keynesian
  * Organizational
  * Post-Keynesian
  * Public choice
  * Regulation
  * Saltwater/freshwater
  * Stockholm
  * Structuralist
  * Supply-side
  * Thermoeconomics
  * Virginia

  
  
Related |

  * History of economic thought
  * History of macroeconomic thought
  * Economics
  * Mainstream economics
  * Heterodox economics
  * Post-autistic economics
  * Degrowth
  * World-systems theory
  * Economic systems

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Behavioral_economics&oldid=812613859"

Categories:

  * Behavioral economics
  * Applied psychology
  * Behavioral finance
  * Financial economics
  * Market trends
  * Microeconomics
  * Prospect theory

Hidden categories:

  * Pages using web citations with no URL
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All pages needing factual verification
  * Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from July 2016
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2010
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from June 2016
  * CS1 maint: Extra text: editors list

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * हिन्दी
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * עברית
  * Lietuvių
  * Македонски
  * Монгол
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Slovenščina
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 28 November 2017, at 21:28.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

