

# California Institute of Technology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

"Caltech" redirects here. For the Texas Instruments calculator, see Cal Tech
(calculator).

California Institute of Technology

Seal of the California Institute of Technology[1]  
  
---  
Motto | The truth shall make you free[2]  
Type | Private  
Established | 1891 (1891)  
Endowment | $2.107 billion (2016)[3]  
President | Thomas F. Rosenbaum  
  
Academic staff

| 300 professorial faculty[4]  
Students | 2,240 (2016)  
Undergraduates | 979 (2016)[5]  
Postgraduates | 1,261 (2016)[5]  
Location | Pasadena, California, U.S.  
34°08′17″N 118°07′30″W﻿ / ﻿34.138°N 118.125°W﻿ / 34.138; -118.125Coordinates:
34°08′17″N 118°07′30″W﻿ / ﻿34.138°N 118.125°W﻿ / 34.138; -118.125  
Campus | Suburban, 124-acre (0.2 sq mi; 50.2 ha)  
Colors | Orange and white  
Athletics | NCAA Division III – SCIAC  
Nickname | Beavers  
Affiliations |

  * AAU
  * URA
  * AITU
  * APRU

  
  
Mascot | Beaver  
Website | www.caltech.edu  
  
The **California Institute of Technology** (abbreviated **Caltech** )[6] is a
private doctorate-granting university located in Pasadena, California, United
States.

Although founded as a preparatory and vocational school by Amos G. Throop in
1891, the college attracted influential scientists such as George Ellery Hale,
Arthur Amos Noyes and Robert Andrews Millikan in the early 20th century. The
vocational and preparatory schools were disbanded and spun off in 1910 and the
college assumed its present name in 1921. In 1934, Caltech was elected to the
Association of American Universities and the antecedents of NASA's Jet
Propulsion Laboratory, which Caltech continues to manage and operate, were
established between 1936 and 1943 under Theodore von Kármán.[7][8] The
university is one among a small group of institutes of technology in the
United States which is primarily devoted to the instruction of technical arts
and applied sciences.

Caltech has six academic divisions with strong emphasis on science and
engineering, managing $332 million in 2011 in sponsored research.[9] Its
124-acre (50 ha) primary campus is located approximately 11 mi (18 km)
northeast of downtown Los Angeles. First-year students are required to live on
campus and 95% of undergraduates remain in the on-campus House System at
Caltech. Although Caltech has a strong tradition of practical jokes and
pranks,[10] student life is governed by an honor code which allows faculty to
assign take-home examinations. The Caltech Beavers compete in 13
intercollegiate sports in the NCAA Division III's Southern California
Intercollegiate Athletic Conference.

Caltech is frequently cited as one of the world's best universities.[11][12]
Caltech alumni and faculty include 37 Nobel Laureates (Linus Pauling being the
only individual in history to win two unshared prizes), 1 Fields Medalist, 6
Turing Award winners, 4 Chief Scientists of the U.S. Air Force and 71 have won
the United States National Medal of Science or Technology.[4] There are 112
faculty members who have been elected to the United States National Academies.
In addition, numerous faculty members are associated with the Howard Hughes
Medical Institute as well as NASA.[4] According to a 2015 Pomona College
study, Caltech ranked number one in the U.S. for the percentage of its
graduates who go on to earn a PhD.[13]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Throop College
    * 1.2 World Wars
    * 1.3 Project Vista
    * 1.4 Post-war growth
    * 1.5 21st century
  * 2 Campus
  * 3 Organization and administration
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Admissions
    * 4.2 Tuition and financial aid
    * 4.3 Undergraduate program
    * 4.4 Graduate program
  * 5 Research
  * 6 Student life
    * 6.1 House system
    * 6.2 Athletics
    * 6.3 Performing and visual arts
    * 6.4 Student life traditions
      * 6.4.1 Annual events
      * 6.4.2 Pranks
        * 6.4.2.1 Rivalry with MIT
      * 6.4.3 Honor code
  * 7 People
    * 7.1 Students
    * 7.2 Faculty and staff
    * 7.3 Alumni
    * 7.4 Presidents
  * 8 Caltech startups
  * 9 In media and popular culture
  * 10 See also
  * 11 References
  * 12 External links

## History[edit]

### Throop College[edit]

Throop Polytechnic Institute, Pasadena, California, 1908, on its original
campus at downtown Pasadena

Caltech started as a vocational school founded in Pasadena in 1891 by local
businessman and politician Amos G. Throop. The school was known successively
as Throop University, Throop Polytechnic Institute (and Manual Training
School)[14] and Throop College of Technology before acquiring its current name
in 1920.[9][15] The vocational school was disbanded and the preparatory
program was split off to form an independent Polytechnic School in 1907.

At a time when scientific research in the United States was still in its
infancy, George Ellery Hale, a solar astronomer from the University of
Chicago, founded the Mount Wilson Observatory in 1904. He joined Throop's
board of trustees in 1907, and soon began developing it and the whole of
Pasadena into a major scientific and cultural destination. He engineered the
appointment of James A. B. Scherer, a literary scholar untutored in science
but a capable administrator and fund raiser, to Throop's presidency in 1908.
Scherer persuaded retired businessman and trustee Charles W. Gates to donate
$25,000 in seed money to build Gates Laboratory, the first science building on
campus.[16]

### World Wars[edit]

In 1910, Throop moved to its current site. Arthur Fleming donated the land for
the permanent campus site. Theodore Roosevelt delivered an address at Throop
Institute on March 21, 1911, and he declared:

> I want to see institutions like Throop turn out perhaps ninety-nine of every
hundred students as men who are to do given pieces of industrial work better
than any one else can do them; I want to see those men do the kind of work
that is now being done on the Panama Canal and on the great irrigation
projects in the interior of this country—and the one-hundredth man I want to
see with the kind of cultural scientific training that will make him and his
fellows the matrix out of which you can occasionally develop a man like your
great astronomer, George Ellery Hale.[17]

Throop Hall, 1912

In the same year, a bill was introduced in the California Legislature calling
for the establishment of a publicly funded "California Institute of
Technology", with an initial budget of a million dollars, ten times the budget
of Throop at the time. The board of trustees offered to turn Throop over to
the state, but the presidents of Stanford University and the University of
California successfully lobbied to defeat the bill, which allowed Throop to
develop as the only scientific research-oriented education institute in
southern California, public or private, until the onset of the World War II
necessitated the broader development of research-based science education.[18]
The promise of Throop attracted physical chemist Arthur Amos Noyes from MIT to
develop the institution and assist in establishing it as a center for science
and technology.

With the onset of World War I, Hale organized the National Research Council to
coordinate and support scientific work on military problems. While he
supported the idea of federal appropriations for science, he took exception to
a federal bill that would have funded engineering research at land-grant
colleges, and instead sought to raise a $1 million national research fund
entirely from private sources. To that end, as Hale wrote in _The New York
Times_ :

> Throop College of Technology, in Pasadena California has recently afforded a
striking illustration of one way in which the Research Council can secure co-
operation and advance scientific investigation. This institution, with its
able investigators and excellent research laboratories, could be of great
service in any broad scheme of cooperation. President Scherer, hearing of the
formation of the council, immediately offered to take part in its work, and
with this object, he secured within three days an additional research
endowment of one hundred thousand dollars.[19]

Through the National Research Council, Hale simultaneously lobbied for science
to play a larger role in national affairs, and for Throop to play a national
role in science. The new funds were designated for physics research, and
ultimately led to the establishment of the Norman Bridge Laboratory, which
attracted experimental physicist Robert Andrews Millikan from the University
of Chicago in 1917.[20] During the course of the war, Hale, Noyes and Millikan
worked together in Washington on the NRC. Subsequently, they continued their
partnership in developing Caltech.[19]

Caltech entrance at 1200 E California Blvd. On the left is East Norman Bridge
Laboratory of Physics and on the right is the Alfred Sloan Laboratory of
Mathematics and Physics.

Under the leadership of Hale, Noyes, and Millikan (aided by the booming
economy of Southern California), Caltech grew to national prominence in the
1920s and concentrated on the development of Roosevelt's "Hundredth Man". On
November 29, 1921, the trustees declared it to be the express policy of the
Institute to pursue scientific research of the greatest importance and at the
same time "to continue to conduct thorough courses in engineering and pure
science, basing the work of these courses on exceptionally strong instruction
in the fundamental sciences of mathematics, physics, and chemistry; broadening
and enriching the curriculum by a liberal amount of instruction in such
subjects as English, history, and economics; and vitalizing all the work of
the Institute by the infusion in generous measure of the spirit of
research".[17] In 1923, Millikan was awarded the Nobel Prize in Physics. In
1925, the school established a department of geology and hired William Bennett
Munro, then chairman of the division of History, Government, and Economics at
Harvard University, to create a division of humanities and social sciences at
Caltech. In 1928, a division of biology was established under the leadership
of Thomas Hunt Morgan, the most distinguished biologist in the United States
at the time, and discoverer of the role of genes and the chromosome in
heredity. In 1930, Kerckhoff Marine Laboratory was established in Corona del
Mar under the care of Professor George MacGinitie. In 1926, a graduate school
of aeronautics was created, which eventually attracted Theodore von Kármán.
Kármán later helped create the Jet Propulsion Laboratory, and played an
integral part in establishing Caltech as one of the world's centers for rocket
science. In 1928, construction of the Palomar Observatory began.

Richard C. Tolman and Albert Einstein at Caltech, 1932

Millikan served as "Chairman of the Executive Council" (effectively Caltech's
president) from 1921 to 1945, and his influence was such that the Institute
was occasionally referred to as "Millikan's School." Millikan initiated a
visiting-scholars program soon after joining Caltech. Scientists who accepted
his invitation include luminaries such as Paul Dirac, Erwin Schrödinger,
Werner Heisenberg, Hendrik Lorentz and Niels Bohr.[21] Albert Einstein arrived
on the Caltech campus for the first time in 1931 to polish up his Theory of
General Relativity, and he returned to Caltech subsequently as a visiting
professor in 1932 and 1933.[22]

During World War II, Caltech was one of 131 colleges and universities
nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which
offered students a path to a Navy commission.[23] The United States Navy also
maintained a naval training school for aeronautical engineering, resident
inspectors of ordnance and naval material, and a liaison officer to the
National Defense Research Committee on campus.[24]

### Project Vista[edit]

From April 1 to December 1, 1951, Caltech was the host of a federal classified
study, Project Vista. The selection of Caltech as host for the project was
based on the university’s expertise in rocketry and nuclear physics. In
response to the war in Korea and the pressure from the Soviet Union, the
project was Caltech’s way of assisting the federal government in its effort to
increase national security.[25] The project was created to study new ways of
improving the relationship between tactical air support and ground troops. The
Army, Air Force, and Navy sponsored the project, however it was under contract
with the Army. The study was named after the hotel, Vista del Arroyo Hotel,
which housed the study. The study operated under a committee with the
supervision of President Lee A. DuBridge. William A. Fowler, a professor at
Caltech, was selected as research director. More than a fourth of Caltech’s
faculty and a group of outside scientists staffed the project.[26] Moreover,
the number increases if one takes into account visiting scientists, military
liaisons, secretarial, and security staff. In compensation for its
participation, the university received about $750,000.[27]

### Post-war growth[edit]

In the 1950s–1970s, Caltech was the home of Murray Gell-Mann and Richard
Feynman, whose work was central to the establishment of the Standard Model of
particle physics. Feynman was also widely known outside the physics community
as an exceptional teacher and colorful, unconventional character.

During Lee A. DuBridge's tenure as Caltech's president (1946–1969), Caltech's
faculty doubled and the campus tripled in size. DuBridge, unlike his
predecessors, welcomed federal funding of science. New research fields
flourished, including chemical biology, planetary science, nuclear
astrophysics, and geochemistry. A 200-inch telescope was dedicated on nearby
Palomar Mountain in 1948 and remained the world's most powerful optical
telescope for over forty years.[28]

Caltech opened its doors to female undergraduates during the presidency of
Harold Brown in 1970, and they made up 14% of the entering class.[29] The
fraction of female undergraduates has been increasing since then.[4]

Caltech undergraduates have historically been so apathetic to politics[
_citation needed_ ][ _weasel  words_] that there has been only one organized
student protest in January 1968 outside the Burbank studios of NBC, in
response to rumors that NBC was to cancel _Star Trek_. In 1973, the students
from Dabney House protested a presidential visit with a sign on the library
bearing the simple phrase "Impeach Nixon". The following week, Ross McCollum,
president of the National Oil Company, wrote an open letter to Dabney House
stating that in light of their actions he had decided not to donate one
million dollars to Caltech. The Dabney family, being Republicans, disowned
Dabney House after hearing of the prank.[30]

###  21st century[edit]

Since 2000, the Einstein Papers Project has been located at Caltech.[31] The
project was established in 1986 to assemble, preserve, translate, and publish
papers selected from the literary estate of Albert Einstein and from other
collections.

The new Annenberg Center for Information Science and Technology

In fall 2008, the freshman class was 42% female, a record for Caltech's
undergraduate enrollment.[4] In the same year, the Institute concluded a six-
year-long fund-raising campaign. The campaign raised more than $1.4 billion
from about 16,000 donors. Nearly half of the funds went into the support of
Caltech programs and projects.[32]

In 2010, Caltech, in partnership with Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory
and headed by Professor Nathan Lewis, established a DOE Energy Innovation Hub
aimed at developing revolutionary methods to generate fuels directly from
sunlight. This hub, the Joint Center for Artificial Photosynthesis, will
receive up to $122 million in federal funding over five years.[33]

Since 2012, Caltech began to offer classes through massive open online courses
(MOOCs) under Coursera, and from 2013, edX.[34]

Jean-Lou Chameau, the eighth president, announced on February 19, 2013, that
he would be stepping down to accept the presidency at King Abdullah University
of Science and Technology.[35] Thomas F. Rosenbaum was announced to be the
ninth president of Caltech on October 24, 2013, and his term began on July 1,
2014.

## Campus[edit]

See also: List of California Institute of Technology buildings and facilities

The Millikan Library, the tallest building on campus

Caltech's 124-acre (50 ha) primary campus is located in Pasadena, California,
approximately 11 miles (18 km) northeast of downtown Los Angeles. It is within
walking distance of Old Town Pasadena and the Pasadena Playhouse District and
therefore the two locations are frequent getaways for Caltech students.

In 1917 Hale hired architect Bertram Goodhue to produce a master plan for the
22 acres (8.9 ha) campus. Goodhue conceived the overall layout of the campus
and designed the physics building, Dabney Hall, and several other structures,
in which he sought to be consistent with the local climate, the character of
the school, and Hale's educational philosophy. Goodhue's designs for Caltech
were also influenced by the traditional Spanish mission architecture of
Southern California.

The Beckman Auditorium

Beckman Institute at Caltech

During the 1960s, Caltech underwent considerable expansion, in part due to the
philanthropy of alumnus Arnold O. Beckman. In 1953, Beckman was asked to join
the Caltech Board of Trustees.[36]:282 In 1964, he became its
chairman.[36]:275 Over the next few years, as Caltech's president emeritus
David Baltimore describes it, Arnold Beckman and his wife Mabel "shaped the
destiny of Caltech".[36]:288

The Beckmans made a major gift to Caltech in 1962, when they funded the
construction of the Beckman Auditorium, a concert hall designed by architect
Edward Durrell Stone. When the circular white stone hall opened with a gala
concert on February 25, 1964, it was praised for its
acoustics.[36]:289–291[37]

The auditorium was the first of several expansions at Caltech that the
Beckmans supported. In 1974, the Beckman Laboratory of Behavioral Biology
(BBB) was dedicated.[36]:291 The building was seen as a significant step
towards the establishment of a new program focusing on neurobiology and a
multi-leveled understanding of brain and its mechanisms at the chemical,
cellular, and systems levels.[38]:153–154 On April 25, 1986, the Beckman
Laboratory of Chemical Synthesis was dedicated. The Beckmans' gift supported
not only the building, but also the installation of state-of-the-art
scientific instrumentation in six customized laboratories.[39] Finally, the
Beckmans funded the Beckman Institute, a multi-disciplinary center for
research in the chemical and biological sciences. In 1986, Beckman agreed to
donate $50 million towards the institute and its endowment. Designed by
architect Albert C. Martin, Jr. in a Spanish style, the Beckman Institute was
dedicated on October 26, 1989, and opened in 1990.[36]:275–290

In 1971 a magnitude-6.6 earthquake in San Fernando caused some damage to the
Caltech campus. Engineers who evaluated the damage found that two historic
buildings dating from the early days of the Institute—Throop Hall and the
Goodhue-designed Culbertson Auditorium—had cracked. These were some of the
first reinforced concrete buildings, and their plans did not contain enough
details (such as how much reinforcing bar had been embedded in the concrete)
to be sure they were safe, so the engineers recommended demolition. However,
demolishing these historic structures required considerably more effort than
would have been necessary had they been in real danger of collapse. A large
wrecking ball was used to demolish Throop Hall, and smashing the concrete
revealed massive amounts of rebar, far in excess of safety requirements. The
rebar had to be cut up before the pieces could be hauled away, and the process
took much longer than expected.

New additions to the campus include the Cahill Center for Astronomy and
Astrophysics and the Walter and Leonore Annenberg Center for Information
Science and Technology, which opened in 2009,[40][41] and the Warren and
Katherine Schlinger Laboratory for Chemistry and Chemical Engineering followed
in March 2010.[42] The Institute also concluded an upgrading of the south
houses in 2006. In late 2010, Caltech completed a 1.3 MW solar array projected
to produce approximately 1.6 GWh in 2011.[43]

## Organization and administration[edit]

See also: List of California Institute of Technology trustees

The Bridge Laboratory of Physics

The mission statement of Caltech reads:

> The mission of the California Institute of Technology is to expand human
knowledge and benefit society through research integrated with education. We
investigate the most challenging, fundamental problems in science and
technology in a singularly collegial, interdisciplinary atmosphere, while
educating outstanding students to become creative members of society.[4]

Caltech is incorporated as a non-profit corporation and is governed by a
privately appointed 46-member board of trustees who serve five-year terms of
office and retire at the age of 72.[15][44] The current board is chaired by
David L. Lee, co-founder of Global Crossing Ltd. The Trustees elect a
President to serve as the chief executive officer of the Institute and
administer the affairs on the Institute on behalf of the board, a Provost who
serves as the chief academic officer of the Institute below the President, and
ten other vice presidential and other senior positions.[44] Former Georgia
Tech provost Jean-Lou Chameau became the eighth president of Caltech on
September 1, 2006, replacing David Baltimore who had served since 1997.[45]
Dr. Chameau's compensation for 2008–2009 totaled $799,472.[46] Chameau served
until June 30, 2013. Thomas F. Rosenbaum was announced to be the ninth
president of Caltech on October 24, 2013, and his term began on July 1, 2014.
Caltech's endowment is governed by a permanent Trustee committee and
administered by an Investment Office.

The Kerckhoff Laboratory of the Biological Sciences

The Institute is organized into six primary academic divisions: Biology and
Biological Engineering, Chemistry and Chemical Engineering, Engineering and
Applied Science, Geological and Planetary Sciences, Humanities and Social
Sciences, and Physics, Mathematics, and Astronomy. The voting faculty of
Caltech include all professors, instructors, research associates and fellows,
and the University Librarian. Faculty are responsible for establishing
admission requirements, academic standards, and curricula. The Faculty Board
is the faculty's representative body and consists of 18 elected faculty
representatives as well as other senior administration officials. Full-time
professors are expected to teach classes, conduct research, advise students,
and perform administrative work such as serving on committees.[47]

The Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL) is a federally funded research and
development center (FFRDC) owned by NASA and operated as a division of Caltech
through a contract between NASA and Caltech. In 2008, JPL spent over $1.6
billion on research and development and employed over 5,000 project-related
and support employees.[48] The JPL Director also serves as a Caltech Vice
President and is responsible to the President of the Institute for the
management of the laboratory.[49]

## Academics[edit]

| University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[50] |  7  
_Forbes_[51] |  6  
_U.S. News& World Report_[52] |  10  
_Washington Monthly_[53] |  34  
Global  
_ARWU_[54] |  9  
_QS_[55] |  4  
_Times_[56] |  3  
_U.S. News& World Report_[57] |  5  
| National Program Rankings[58]  
---  
Program | Ranking  
Biological Sciences | 5  
Chemistry | 1  
Computer Science | 11  
Earth Sciences | 1  
Engineering | 4  
Mathematics | 7  
Physics | 2  
| Global Program Rankings[59]  
---  
Program | Ranking  
Biology & Biochemistry | 23  
Chemistry | 18  
Computer Science | 51  
Engineering | 59  
Geosciences | 1  
Materials Science | 36  
Mathematics | 52  
Molecular Biology & Genetics | 81  
Physics | 6  
Space Science | 1  
  
Caltech is a small four-year, highly residential research university with a
slight majority in graduate programs.[60] The Institute has been accredited by
the Western Association of Schools and Colleges since 1949.[61][62] Caltech is
on the quarter system:[63] the fall term starts in late September and ends
before Christmas, the second term starts after New Years Day and ends in mid-
March, and the third term starts in late March or early April and ends in
early June.[64]

Caltech was ranked 1st internationally between 2011 and 2016 by the _Times
Higher Education World University Rankings_.[65] Caltech was ranked as the
best university in the world in two categories: Engineering  & Technology and
Physical Sciences.[66][67] It was also found to have the highest faculty
citation rate in the world.[68]

The _Academic Ranking of World Universities_ (ARWU), a ranking with an
emphasis on bibliometric data and scientific research, ranked Caltech 8th in
the world and 6th in the U.S. for 2016.

In 2012, the Center for World University Rankings ranked Caltech fifth in the
world and fourth nationally in its CWUR World University Rankings.

_Money Magazine_ ranked Caltech 10th in the country out of the nearly 1500
schools it evaluated for its 2014 Best Colleges ranking.[69]

_The Daily Beast_ ranked Caltech 12th in the country out of the nearly 2000
schools it evaluated for its 2014 Best Colleges ranking.[70]

_U.S. News& World Report_ ranked Caltech as tied for the 10th best university
in the United States in their 2016 national rankings, with the graduate
programs in chemistry and earth sciences ranked first in the nation.[71]

The United States National Research Council released its latest _Assessment of
Research Doctorate Programs_ in 2010, and 23 of the 24 graduate programs of
Caltech were ranked within the top four programs in the nation in their size
quartile as determined by both the R95 and S95 rankings. Of particular note,
programs that were placed within the top 10% of all size programs in that
field based on an average of the R95 and S95 rank order include Aeronautics,
Astrophysics, Biochemistry and Molecular Biophysics, Bioengineering, Biology,
Chemical Engineering, Chemistry, Electrical Engineering, Environmental Science
and Engineering, Geology, Geophysics, Materials Science, Mechanical
Engineering, Physics, Planetary Science, and Social Science (Economics).[72]

In 2013 a paper published in the Quarterly Journal of Economics ranked Caltech
2nd in the U.S. (after Harvard) for revealed preference.[73] The sample of the
study was 3240 high achieving students (students ranked in the top 10% of
public high school class or top 20% of private high school class). Rankings
were based on number of students who accepted offered admission.

### Admissions[edit]

For the Class of 2021 (enrolled Fall 2017), Caltech received a record 7,339
applications and accepted 568 (7.7%); 235 enrolled.[74]

Admission to Caltech is extremely rigorous and requires the highest test
scores in the nation.[75]

The middle 50% range of SAT scores for enrolled freshmen were 740-800 for
critical reading, 770-800 for math, and 730-800 for writing. The middle 50%
range ACT Composite score was 34-36. The SAT Math Level 2 middle 50% range is
800–800.[76]

### Tuition and financial aid[edit]

Undergraduate tuition for the 2013–2014 school year was $39,990 and total
annual costs were estimated to be $58,755.[77] In 2012–2013, Caltech awarded
$17.1 million in need-based aid, $438k in non-need-based aid, and $2.51
million in self-help support to enrolled undergraduate students. The average
financial aid package of all students eligible for aid was $38,756 and
students graduated with an average debt of $15,090.[63]

### Undergraduate program[edit]

The full-time, four-year undergraduate program emphasizes instruction in the
arts and sciences and has high graduate coexistence.[60] Caltech offers 24
majors (called "options") and six minors across all six academic
divisions.[78] Caltech also offers interdisciplinary programs in Applied
Physics, Biochemistry, Bioengineering, Computation and Neural Systems, Control
and Dynamical Systems, Environmental Science and Engineering, Geobiology and
Astrobiology, Geochemistry, and Planetary Astronomy. The most popular options
are Chemical Engineering, Computer Science, Electrical Engineering, Mechanical
Engineering and Physics.[79]

Prior to the entering class of 2017, Caltech requires students to take a core
curriculum of three terms of mathematics, three terms of physics, two terms of
chemistry, one term of biology, two terms of lab courses, one terms of
scientific communication, three terms of physical education, and 12 terms of
humanities and social science.[80]

Breezeway of Arms Laboratory

A typical class is worth 9 academic units and given the extensive core
curriculum requirements in addition to individual options' degree
requirements, students need to take an average of 40.5 units per term (more
than four classes) in order to graduate in four years. 36 units is the minimum
full-time load, 48 units is considered a heavy load, and registrations above
51 units require an overload petition.[81] Approximately 20 percent of
students double-major.[82] This is achievable since the humanities and social
sciences majors have been designed to be done in conjunction with a science
major. Although choosing two options in the same division is discouraged, it
is still possible.

First-year students are enrolled in first-term classes based upon results of
placement exams in math, physics, chemistry, and writing and take all classes
in their first two terms on a Pass/Fail basis.[81] There is little
competition; collaboration on homework is encouraged and the Honor System
encourages take-home tests and flexible homework schedules.[83] Caltech offers
co-operative programs with other schools, such as the Pasadena Art Center
College of Design and Occidental College.

Upon graduation, Caltech alumni have one of the highest median starting salary
among graduates of other colleges or universities in 2012–2013, of $67,400,
according to PayScale. The mid-career median pay is $120,700.[84] Caltech was
found to offer the second highest return of investment of college education,
at $1,991,000 over a 30-year period, according to the same study.[85]

Caltech offers Army and Air Force ROTC in cooperation with the University of
Southern California.[63]

### Graduate program[edit]

Doctoral regalia of the California Institute of Technology

The graduate instructional programs emphasize doctoral studies and are
dominated by science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields.[60] The
Institute offers graduate degree programs for the Master of Science,
Engineer's Degree, Doctor of Philosophy, BS/MS and MD/PhD, with the majority
of students in the PhD program.[60] The most popular options are Chemistry,
Physics, Biology, Electrical Engineering and Chemical Engineering.[79]
Applicants for graduate studies are required to take the GRE. GRE Subject
scores are either required or strongly recommended by several options.[86] A
joint program between Caltech and the Keck School of Medicine of the
University of Southern California, and the UCLA David Geffen School of
Medicine grants MD/PhD degrees. Students in this program do their preclinical
and clinical work at USC or UCLA, and their PhD work with any member of the
Caltech faculty, including the Biology, Chemistry, and Engineering and Applied
Sciences Divisions. The MD degree would be from USC or UCLA and the PhD would
be awarded from Caltech.[87][88]

The research facilities at Caltech are available to graduate students, but
there are opportunities for students to work in facilities of other
universities, research centers as well as private industries.[89] The graduate
student to faculty ratio is 4:1.[90]

Approximately 99 percent of doctoral students have full financial support.
Financial support for graduate students comes in the form of fellowships,
research assistantships, teaching assistantships or a combination of
fellowship and assistantship support.[91]

Graduate students are bound by the Honor Code, as are the undergraduates, and
the Graduate Honor Council oversees any violations of the code.

## Research[edit]

Caltech was elected to the Association of American Universities in 1934 and
remains a research university with "very high" research activity, primarily in
STEM fields.[7][60] Caltech manages research expenditures of $270 million
annually,[92] 66th among all universities in the U.S. and 17th among private
institutions without medical schools for 2008.[93][94] The largest federal
agencies contributing to research are NASA, National Science Foundation,
Department of Health and Human Services, Department of Defense, and Department
of Energy.[95] Caltech received $144 million in federal funding for the
physical sciences, $40.8 million for the life sciences, $33.5 million for
engineering, $14.4 million for environmental sciences, $7.16 million for
computer sciences, and $1.97 million for mathematical sciences in 2008.[96]

The Institute was awarded an all-time high funding of $357 million in
2009.[97] Active funding from the National Science Foundation Directorate of
Mathematical and Physical Science (MPS) for Caltech stands at $343 million as
of 2011, the highest for any educational institution in the nation, and higher
than the total funds allocated to any state except California and New
York.[98]

The new Schlinger Laboratory for Chemistry and Chemical Engineering

In 2005, Caltech had 739,000 square feet (68,700 m2) dedicated to research:
330,000 square feet (30,700 m2) to physical sciences, 163,000 square feet
(15,100 m2) to engineering, and 160,000 square feet (14,900 m2) to biological
sciences.[99]

In addition to managing JPL, Caltech also operates the Palomar Observatory in
San Diego County, the Owens Valley Radio Observatory in Bishop, California,
the Submillimeter Observatory and W. M. Keck Observatory at the Mauna Kea
Observatory, the Laser Interferometer Gravitational-Wave Observatory at
Livingston, Louisiana and Richland, Washington, and Kerckhoff Marine
Laboratory in Corona del Mar, California.[47] The Institute launched the Kavli
Nanoscience Institute at Caltech in 2006,[100] the Keck Institute for Space
Studies in 2008, and is also the current home for the Einstein Papers Project.
The Spitzer Science Center (SSC), part of the Infrared Processing and Analysis
Center located on the Caltech campus, is the data analysis and community
support center for NASA's Spitzer Space Telescope.

Caltech partnered with UCLA to establish a Joint Center for Translational
Medicine (UCLA-Caltech JCTM), which conducts experimental research into
clinical applications, including the diagnosis and treatment of diseases such
as cancer.

Caltech operates several TCCON stations as part of an international
collaborative effort of measuring greenhouse gases globally. One station is on
campus.

The Cahill Center for Astronomy and Astrophysics

Undergraduates at Caltech are also encouraged to participate in research.
About 80% of the class of 2010 did research through the annual Summer
Undergraduate Research Fellowships (SURF) program at least once during their
stay, and many continued during the school year.[101] Students write and
submit SURF proposals for research projects in collaboration with professors,
and about 70 percent of applicants are awarded SURFs. The program is open to
both Caltech and non-Caltech undergraduate students. It serves as preparation
for graduate school and helps to explain why Caltech has the highest
percentage of alumni who go on to receive a PhD of all the major
universities.[102]

The licensing and transferring of technology to the commercial sector is
managed by the Office of Technology Transfer (OTT). OTT protects and manages
the intellectual property developed by faculty members, students, other
researchers, and JPL technologists. Caltech receives more invention
disclosures per faculty member than any other university in the nation.[103]
As of 2008, 1891 patents were granted to Caltech researchers since 1969.[104]

## Student life[edit]

### House system[edit]

Main article: House System at the California Institute of Technology

During the early 20th century, a Caltech committee visited several
universities and decided to transform the undergraduate housing system from
regular fraternities to a house system. Four south houses (or _hovses_ ) were
built: Blacker House, Dabney House, Fleming House and Ricketts House. In the
1960s, three north houses were built: Lloyd House, Page House, and Ruddock
House, and during the 1990s, Avery House. The four south houses closed for
renovation in 2005 and reopened in 2006. All first year students live in the
house system and 95% of undergraduates remain affiliated with a
house.[63][105]

### Athletics[edit]

The Caltech Beavers' logo

Caltech has athletic teams in baseball, men's and women's basketball, cross
country, fencing, men's soccer, swimming and diving, men's and women's tennis,
track and field, women's volleyball, and men's and women's water polo.[106]
Caltech's mascot is the Beaver, a homage to nature's engineer.[107] Its teams
(with the exception of the fencing team) play in the Southern California
Intercollegiate Athletic Conference, which Caltech co-founded in 1915.[108]
The fencing team[109] competes in the NCAA's Division I, facing teams from
UCLA, USC, UCSD, and Stanford, among others.

On January 6, 2007, the Beavers' men's basketball team snapped a 207-game
losing streak to Division III schools, beating Bard College 81–52. It was
their first Division III victory since 1996.[110] Until their win over
Occidental on February 22, 2011[111] the team had not won a game in conference
play since 1985. Ryan Elmquist's free throw with 3.3 seconds in regulation
gave the Beavers the victory.[112][113] The documentary film _Quantum Hoops_
concerns the events of the Beavers' 2005–06 season.

On January 13, 2007, the Caltech women's basketball team snapped a 50-game
losing streak, defeating the Pomona–Pitzer Sagehens 55–53. The women's
program, which entered the SCIAC in 2002, garnered their first conference win.
On the bench as honorary coach for the evening was Dr. Robert Grubbs, 2005
Nobel laureate in Chemistry.[114] The team went on to beat Whittier College on
February 10, for its second SCIAC win, and placed its first member on the All
Conference team.[115] The 2006–2007 season is the most successful season in
the history of the program.

In 2007, 2008, and 2009, the women's table tennis team (a club team) competed
in nationals. The women's Ultimate club team, known as "Snatch", has also been
very successful in recent years, ranking 44 of over 200 college teams in the
Ultimate Player's Association.[116]

On February 2, 2013, the Caltech baseball team ended a 228-game losing streak,
the team's first win in nearly 10 years.[117]

The track and field team plays at the South Athletic Field in Tournament Park,
the site of the first Rose Bowl Game.

The school also sponsored a football team prior to 1976, which played part of
its home schedule at the Rose Bowl, or, as Caltech students put it, "to the
largest number of empty seats in the nation".

### Performing and visual arts[edit]

The Caltech/Occidental College Orchestra is a full seventy-piece orchestra
composed of students, faculty, and staff at Caltech and nearby Occidental
College. The orchestra gives three pairs of concerts annually, at both Caltech
and Occidental College. There are also two Caltech Jazz Bands and a Concert
Band. For vocal music, Caltech has a mixed voice Glee Club and a smaller
Chamber Singer group.[118] The theater program at Caltech is known as TACIT,
or Theater Arts at the California Institute of Technology. There are two to
three plays organized by TACIT per year, and they were involved in the
production of the PHD Movie, released in 2011.

### Student life traditions[edit]

#### Annual events[edit]

Every Halloween, Dabney House conducts the infamous "Millikan pumpkin-drop
experiment" from the top of Millikan Library, the highest point on campus.
According to tradition, a claim was once made that the shattering of a pumpkin
frozen in liquid nitrogen and dropped from a sufficient height would produce a
triboluminescent spark. This yearly event involves a crowd of observers, who
try to spot the elusive spark. The title of the event is an oblique reference
to the famous Millikan oil-drop experiment which measured _e_ , the elemental
unit of electrical charge.

On Ditch Day, the seniors ditch school, leaving behind elaborately designed
tasks and traps at the doors of their rooms to prevent underclassmen from
entering. Over the years this has evolved to the point where many seniors
spend months designing mechanical, electrical, and software obstacles to
confound the underclassmen. Each group of seniors designs a "stack" to be
solved by a handful of underclassmen. The faculty have been drawn into the
event as well, and cancel all classes on Ditch Day so the underclassmen can
participate in what has become a highlight of the academic year.

Another long-standing tradition is the playing of Wagner's "Ride of the
Valkyries" at 7:00 each morning during finals week with the largest, loudest
speakers available. The playing of that piece is not allowed at any other time
(except if one happens to be listening to the entire 14 hours and 5 minutes of
_The Ring Cycle_ ), and any offender is dragged into the showers to be
drenched in cold water fully dressed. The playing of the _Ride_ is such a
strong tradition that the music was used during Apollo 17 to awaken Astronaut
Harrison Schmitt, a Caltech alumnus. Unfortunately, the tradition arose at
different times in different Houses, so Schmitt did not react as expected.
Instead, he just became confused. [ _citation needed_ ]

#### Pranks[edit]

The Fleming cannon

Caltech students have been known for the many pranks (also known as
"RFs").[119]

The two most famous in recent history are the changing of the Hollywood Sign
to read "Caltech", by judiciously covering up certain parts of the letters,
and the changing of the scoreboard to read Caltech 38, MIT 9 during the 1984
Rose Bowl Game. But the most famous of all occurred during the 1961 Rose Bowl
Game, where Caltech students altered the flip-cards that were raised by the
stadium attendees to display "Caltech", and several other "unintended"
messages. This event is now referred to as the Great Rose Bowl Hoax.

In recent years, pranking has been officially encouraged by Tom Mannion,
Caltech's Assistant VP for Student Affairs and Campus Life. "The grand old
days of pranking have gone away at Caltech, and that's what we are trying to
bring back," reported the _Boston Globe_.[120]

In December 2011, Caltech students went to New York and pulled a prank on
Manhattan's Greenwich Village. The prank involved making The Cube sculpture
look like the Aperture Science Weighted Companion Cube from the video game
_Portal_.[121]

Caltech pranks have been documented in three Legends of Caltech books, the
most recent of which was edited by alumni Autumn Looijen '99 and Mason Porter
'98 and published in May 2007.

##### Rivalry with MIT[edit]

Main article: Caltech–MIT rivalry

In 2005, a group of Caltech students pulled a string of pranks during MIT's
Campus Preview Weekend for admitted students. These include covering up the
word Massachusetts in the "Massachusetts Institute of Technology" engraving on
the main building façade with a banner so that it read "That Other Institute
of Technology". A group of MIT hackers responded by altering the banner so
that the inscription read "The Only Institute of Technology." Caltech students
also passed out T-shirts to MIT's incoming freshman class that had MIT written
on the front and "... because not everyone can go to Caltech" along with an
image of a palm tree on the back.

MIT retaliated in April 2006, when students posing as the Howe & Ser
(Howitzer) Moving Company stole the 130-year-old, 1.7-ton Fleming House cannon
and moved it over 3000 miles to their campus in Cambridge, Massachusetts for
their 2006 Campus Preview Weekend, repeating a similar prank performed by
nearby Harvey Mudd College in 1986. Thirty members of Fleming House traveled
to MIT and reclaimed their cannon on April 10, 2006.

On April 13, 2007 (Friday the 13th), a group of students from _The California
Tech_ , Caltech's campus newspaper, arrived and distributed fake copies of
_The Tech_ , MIT's campus newspaper, while prospective students were visiting
for their Campus Preview Weekend. Articles included "MIT Invents the
Interweb", "Architects Deem Campus 'Unfortunate'", and "Infinite Corridor Not
Actually Infinite".

In December 2009, some Caltech students declared that MIT had been sold and
had become the Caltech East campus. A "sold" banner was hung on front of the
MIT dome building and a "Welcome to Caltech East: School of the Humanities"
banner over the Massachusetts Avenue Entrance. Newspapers and T-shirts were
distributed, and door labels and fliers in the infinite corridor were put up
in accordance with the "curriculum change."[122][123]

In September 2010, MIT students attempted to put a TARDIS, the time machine
from the BBC's _Doctor Who_ , onto a roof. Caught in midact, the prank was
aborted. In January 2011, Caltech students in conjunction with MIT students
helped put the TARDIS on top of Baxter.[124] Caltech students then moved the
TARDIS to UC Berkeley[125] and Stanford.[126]

In April 2014, during MIT's Campus Preview Weekend, a group of Caltech
students handed out mugs emblazoned with the MIT logo on the front and the
words "The Institute of Technology" on the back. When heated, the mugs turn
orange, display a palm tree, and read "Caltech The Hotter Institute of
Technology." Identical mugs continue to be sold at the Caltech campus
store.[127]

#### Honor code[edit]

Life in the Caltech community is governed by the honor code, which simply
states: "No member of the Caltech community shall take unfair advantage of any
other member of the Caltech community." This is enforced by a Board of
Control, which consists of undergraduate students,[128] and by a similar body
at the graduate level, called the Graduate Honor Council.[129]

The honor code aims at promoting an atmosphere of respect and trust that
allows Caltech students to enjoy privileges that make for a more relaxed
atmosphere. For example, the honor code allows professors to make the majority
of exams as take-home, allowing students to take them on their own schedule
and in their preferred environment.

Through the late 1990s, the only exception to the honor code, implemented
earlier in the decade in response to changes in federal regulations, concerned
the sexual harassment policy. Today, there are myriad exceptions to the honor
code in the form of new institute policies such as the fire policy, and
alcohol policy. Though both policies are presented in the Honor System
Handbook given to new members of the Caltech community, some undergraduates
regard them as a slight against the honor code and the implicit trust and
respect it represents within the community.[130] In recent years, the Student
Affairs Office has also become fond of pursuing investigations independently
of the Board of Control and Conduct Review Committee, an implicit violation of
both the Honor Code and written disciplinary policy that has contributed to
further erosion of trust between some parts of the undergraduate community and
the administration.[131]

## People[edit]

Main article: List of California Institute of Technology people

As of 2017, Caltech has 37 Nobel laureates to its name awarded to 22 alumni,
which includes 5 Caltech professors who are also alumni (Carl D. Anderson,
Linus Pauling, William A. Fowler, Edward B. Lewis, and Kip Thorne), and 15
non-alumni professors. The total number of Nobel Prizes is 38 because Pauling
received prizes in both Chemistry and Peace. The official Nobel Prize count is
48 affiliates in total when including temporary academic staff such as
visiting professors and postdoctoral scholars. Seven faculty and alumni have
received a Crafoord Prize from the Royal Swedish Academy of Sciences, while 58
have been awarded the U.S. National Medal of Science, and 13 have received the
National Medal of Technology.[4] One alumnus, Stanislav Smirnov, won the
Fields Medal in 2010. Other distinguished researchers have been affiliated
with Caltech as postdoctoral scholars (for example, Barbara McClintock, James
D. Watson, Sheldon Glashow and John Gurdon) or visiting professors (for
example, Albert Einstein, Stephen Hawking and Edward Witten).

### Students[edit]

_Demographics of Caltech student body (2016–17)_[5] |  Undergraduate |
Graduate  
---|---|---  
White American | 29% | 35%  
Asian American | 42% | 11%  
Underrepresented minority | 16% | 5%  
International | 9% | 46%  
Two or more races / Unknown | 4% | 3%  
  
Caltech enrolled 979 undergraduate students and 1,261 graduate students for
the 2016–2017 school year. Women made up 41% of the undergraduate and 29% of
the graduate student body.[5] The racial demographics of the school
substantially differ from those of the nation as a whole.[132]

The four-year graduation rate is 79% and the six-year rate is 92%,[63] which
is low compared to most leading U.S. universities,[133] but substantially
higher than it was in the 1960s and 1970s.[134] Students majoring in STEM
fields traditionally have graduation rates below 70%.[135]

### Faculty and staff[edit]

Broad Center for Biological Sciences

Richard Feynman was among the most well-known physicists associated with
Caltech, having published the _Feynman Lectures on Physics_ , an undergraduate
physics text, and a few other popular science texts such as _Six Easy Pieces_
for the general audience. The promotion of physics made him a public figure of
science, although his Nobel-winning work in quantum electrodynamics was
already very established in the scientific community. Murray Gell-Mann, a
Nobel-winning physicist, introduced a classification of hadrons and went on to
postulate the existence of quarks, which is currently accepted as part of the
Standard Model. Long-time Caltech President Robert Andrews Millikan was the
first to calculate the charge of the electron with his well-known oil-drop
experiment, while Richard Chace Tolman is remembered for his contributions to
cosmology and statistical mechanics. 2004 Nobel Prize in Physics winner H.
David Politzer is a current professor at Caltech, as is astrophysicist and
author Kip Thorne and eminent mathematician Barry Simon. Linus Pauling
pioneered quantum chemistry and molecular biology, and went on to discover the
nature of the chemical bond in 1939. Seismologist Charles Richter, also an
alumnus, developed the magnitude scale that bears his name, the Richter
magnitude scale for measuring the power of earthquakes. One of the founders of
the geochemistry department, Clair Patterson was the first to accurately
determine the age of the Earth via lead:uranium ratio in meteorites. In
engineering, Theodore von Kármán made many key advances in aerodynamics,
notably his work on supersonic and hypersonic airflow characterization. A
repeating pattern of swirling vortices is named after him, the von Kármán
vortex street. Participants in von Kármán's GALCIT project included Frank
Malina, who helped develop the WAC Corporal which was the first U.S. rocket to
reach the edge of space, Jack Parsons, a pioneer in the development of liquid
and solid rocket fuels who designed the first castable composite-based rocket
motor, and Qian Xuesen, who was dubbed the "Father of Chinese Rocketry". More
recently, Michael Brown, a professor of planetary astronomy, discovered many
trans-Neptunian objects, most notably the dwarf planet Eris, which prompted
the International Astronomical Union to redefine the term "planet".

David Baltimore, the Robert A. Millikan Professor of Biology, and Alice Huang,
Senior Faculty Associate in Biology, have served as the President of AAAS from
2007–2008 and 2010–2011 respectively.[136]

33% of the faculty are members of the National Academy of Science or
Engineering and/or fellows of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. This
is the highest percentage of any faculty in the country with the exception of
the graduate institution Rockefeller University.[137]

The average salary for assistant professors at Caltech is $111,300, associate
professors $121,300, and full professors $172,800.[138] Caltech faculty are
active in applied physics, astronomy and astrophysics, biology, biochemistry,
biological engineering, chemical engineering, computer science, geology,
mechanical engineering and physics.[139]

### Alumni[edit]

There are 22,930 total living alumni in the U.S. and around the world.[140]
Twenty-two alumni and 15 non-alumni faculty have won the Nobel Prize. The
Turing Award, the "Nobel Prize of Computer Science", has been awarded to six
alumni, and one has won the Fields Medal.[141]

Alumni have participated in scientific research. Some have concentrated their
studies on the very small universe of atoms and molecules. Nobel laureate Carl
D. Anderson (BS 1927, PhD 1930) proved the existence of positrons and muons,
Nobel laureate Edwin McMillan (BS 1928, MS 1929) synthesized the first
transuranium element, Nobel laureate Leo James Rainwater (BS 1939)
investigated the non-spherical shapes of atomic nuclei, and Nobel laureate
Douglas D. Osheroff (BS 1967) studied the superfluid nature of helium-3.
Donald Knuth (PhD 1963), the "father" of the analysis of algorithms, wrote
_The Art of Computer Programming_ and created the TeX computer typesetting
system, which is commonly used in the scientific community. Narendra Karmarkar
(MS 1979) is known for the interior point method, a polynomial algorithm for
linear programming known as Karmarkar's algorithm.

Aerial view of Caltech in Pasadena, California

Other alumni have turned their gaze to the universe. C. Gordon Fullerton (BS
1957, MS 1958) piloted the third Space Shuttle mission. Astronaut (and later,
United States Senator) Harrison Schmitt (BS 1957) was the only geologist to
have ever walked on the surface of the moon.[142] Astronomer Eugene Merle
Shoemaker (BS 1947, MS 1948) co-discovered Comet Shoemaker-Levy 9 (a comet
which crashed into the planet Jupiter) and was the first person buried on the
moon (by having his ashes crashed into the moon).[143] Astronomer George O.
Abell (BS 1951, MS 1952, PhD 1957) while a grad student at Cal Tech
participated in the National Geographic Society-Palomar Sky Survey. This
ultimately resulted in the publication of the _Abell Catalogue of Clusters of
Galaxies,_ the definitive work in the field.[144]

Undergraduate alumni founded, or co-founded, companies such as LCD
manufacturer Varitronix,[145] Hotmail,[146] Compaq,[147] and MathWorks (which
created Matlab),[148] while graduate students founded, or co-founded,
companies such as Intel,[149] TRW,[150] and the non-profit educational
organization, the Exploratorium.[151]

Arnold Beckman (PhD 1928) invented the pH meter and commercialized it with the
founding of Beckman Instruments. His success with that company enabled him to
provide seed funding for William Shockley (BS 1932), who had co-invented
semiconductor transistors and wanted to commercialize them. Shockley became
the founding Director of the Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory division of
Beckman Instruments.[152] Shockley had previously worked at Bell Labs, whose
first president was another alumnus, Frank Jewett (BS 1898). Because his aging
mother lived in Palo Alto, California, Shockley established his laboratory
near her in Mountain View, California.[152][153] Shockley was a co-recipient
of the Nobel Prize in physics in 1956, but his aggressive management style and
odd personality[154] at the Shockley Lab became unbearable.[155] In late 1957,
eight of his researchers resigned and with support from Sherman Fairchild
formed Fairchild Semiconductor. Among the "traitorous eight" was Gordon E.
Moore (PhD 1954), who later left Fairchild to co-found Intel. Other offspring
companies of Fairchild Semiconductor include National Semiconductor and
Advanced Micro Devices, which in turn spawned more technology companies in the
area. Shockley's decision to use silicon – instead of germanium – as the
semiconductor material, coupled with the abundance of silicon semiconductor
related companies in the area, gave rise to the term "Silicon Valley"[156] to
describe that geographic region surrounding Palo Alto.

Caltech alumni also held public offices, with Mustafa A.G. Abushagur (PhD
1984) the Deputy Prime Minister of Libya, James Fletcher (PhD 1948) the 4th
and 7th Administrator of NASA, Steven Koonin (PhD 1972) the Undersecretary of
Energy for Science, and Regina Dugan (PhD 1993) the 19th director of DARPA.
The 20th director for DARPA, Arati Prabhakar, is also a Caltech alumna (PhD
1984). Arvind Virmani is a former Chief Economic Adviser to the Government of
India. In 2013, President Obama announced the nomination of France Cordova
(PhD 1979) as the director of the National Science Foundation and Ellen
Williams (PhD 1982) as the director for ARPA-E.[157]

  * Notable Caltech alumni include:
  * Nobel laureate Carl David Anderson, BS 1927, PhD 1930, discoverer of the positron and the muon

  * Nobel laureate Douglas D. Osheroff, BS 1967

  * Nobel laureate William Shockley, BS 1932, co-inventor of the solid state transistor, father of Silicon Valley

  * Nobel laureate Edwin McMillan, BS 1928, MS 1929

  * Nobel laureate Vernon Smith, BS 1949

  * Turing Award laureate Fernando J. Corbató, BS 1950

  * Turing Award laureate Donald Knuth, PhD 1963, "father" of the analysis of algorithms, creator of TeX typesetting system

  * Turing Award laureate John McCarthy, BS 1948, inventor of the Lisp programming language

  * Astronaut C. Gordon Fullerton, BS 1957, MS 1958

  * Astronaut and United States Senator Harrison Schmitt, BS 1957, the only geologist to have walked on the moon

  * Libyan Deputy Prime Minister Mustafa A.G. Abushagur, PhD 1984

  * Qian Xuesen, PhD 1939, co-founder of JPL, "Father" of Chinese rocketry

  * Arnold Orville Beckman, PhD 1928, inventor of the pH meter, founder of Beckman Instruments and the Arnold and Mabel Beckman Foundation

  * Gordon Moore, PhD 1954, co-founder of Intel

  * National Medal of Technology laureate Carver Mead, BS 1956, MS 1957, PhD 1960

  * Benoit Mandelbrot, MS 1948, Engineering 1949, father of fractal geometry, namesake of the Mandelbrot set

  * Frank Capra, BS Chemical Engineering 1918 (when Caltech was known as the "Throop Institute");[158] winner of six Academy Awards in directing and producing; producer and director of _It's a Wonderful Life_

  * Nobel laureate Kip Thorne, BS 1962, known for his prolific contributions in gravitation physics and astrophysics and co-founding of LIGO

  * Stephen Wolfram, PhD 1979, creator of Mathematica and Wolfram Alpha; one of the first MacArthur Fellows in 1981

  * Stanislav Smirnov, PhD 1996, 2010 Fields Medal winner for his work on the mathematical foundations of statistical physics, particularly finite lattice models

  * Ahmed Zewail PhD 1976, father of femtochemistry, Nobel Prize for Chemistry (1999) and Benjamin Franklin Medal (1998)

### Presidents[edit]

  * James Augustin Brown Scherer (1908–1920) (president of Throop College of Technology before the name change)
  * Robert A. Millikan (1921–1945), experimental physicist, Nobel laureate in physics for 1923 (his official title was "Chairman of the Executive Council")
  * Lee A. DuBridge (1946–1969), experimental physicist (first to officially hold the title of President)
  * Harold Brown (1969–1977), physicist and public servant (left Caltech to serve as United States Secretary of Defense in the administration of Jimmy Carter)
  * Robert F. Christy (1977–1978), astrophysicist (acting president)
  * Marvin L. Goldberger (1978–1987), theoretical physicist (left to serve as Director of Institute for Advanced Studies)
  * Thomas E. Everhart (1987–1997), experimental physicist
  * David Baltimore (1997–2006), molecular biologist, Nobel laureate in physiology or medicine for 1975
  * Jean-Lou Chameau (2006–2013), civil engineer and educational administrator (left to serve as President of King Abdullah University of Science and Technology)
  * Thomas F. Rosenbaum (2014–), condensed matter physicist and administrator

## Caltech startups[edit]

Over the years Caltech has actively promoted the commercialization of
technologies developed within its walls. Through its Office of Technology
Transfer & Corporate Partnerships,[159] scientific breakthroughs have led to
the transfer of numerous technologies in a wide variety of scientific-related
fields such as photovoltaic, radio-frequency identification (RFID),
semiconductors, hyperspectral imaging, electronic devices, protein design,
solid state amplifiers and many more.[160] Companies such as Contour Energy
Systems, Impinj, Fulcrum Microsystems, Nanosys, Inc., Photon etc., Xencor,
Wavestream Wireless[161] have emerged from Caltech.

## In media and popular culture[edit]

Caltech has appeared in many works of popular culture, both as itself and in
disguised form. As with MIT, a Caltech reference is often used to establish a
character's high level of intelligence or a technical background; for example,
in the novel _Contact_ by Carl Sagan, Eleanor Arroway holds a Ph.D. in radio
astronomy from there. On television, several characters in the sitcom _The Big
Bang Theory_ are employed at the Institute. Caltech is also the inspiration,
and frequent film location, for the California Institute of Science of
_Numb3rs_.[162] On film, the Pacific Tech of _The War of the Worlds_[163] and
_Real Genius_[162] is based on Caltech. In nonfiction, two 2007 documentaries
examine aspects of Caltech: _Curious_ , its researchers,[164][165] and
_Quantum Hoops_ , its men's basketball team.

Given its Los Angeles-area location, the grounds of the Institute are often
host to short scenes in movies and television. The Athenaeum dining club
appears in the _Beverly Hills Cop_ series, _The X-Files_ , _True Romance_ ,
and _The West Wing_.[166]

##  See also[edit]

  * Engineering
  * Glossary of engineering
  * US-China University Presidents Roundtable

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "THE CALTECH SEAL". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  April 16, 2015. 
  2. **^** "Caltech: Did you know?". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  December 26, 2013. 
  3. **^** As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ "Caltech: At a Glance". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  January 2, 2016. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Fall Enrollment 2016-17". Caltech - Office of the Registrar. Retrieved  October 27, 2016. 
  6. **^** The university itself only spells its short form as "Caltech"; other spellings such as "Cal Tech" and "CalTech" are incorrect. The Institute is also occasionally referred to as "CIT", most notably in its alma mater, but this is uncommon.
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Member Institutions". American Association of Universities. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  8. **^** "Early History". NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Caltech Overview 2010–2011" (PDF). Caltech Office of Marketing and Communications. Retrieved March 8, 2011. 
  10. **^** Fitzpatrick, Laura (September 8, 2008). "The Biggest Pranks in Geek History". _Time_.  
  11. **^** "AWRU Rankings". _AWRU_.  
  12. **^** "World University Rankings 2015-2016: results announced". Times Higher Education Rankings.  
  13. **^** "Baccalaureate Origins of Earned Doctoral Degrees (2003-2012)" (PDF). 2015-07-01. Retrieved 2016-05-12. 
  14. **^** Thomas, Grace Powers (1898). _Where to educate, 1898-1899. A guide to the best private schools, higher institutions of learning, etc., in the United States_. Boston: Brown and Company. p. 15. Retrieved  August 17, 2012. 
  15. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Articles of Incorporation". Board of Trustees, California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  16. **^** Goodstein, Judith R. (1991). "Preamble to a Technical School". _Millikan's School: A History of the California Institute of Technology_. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. pp. 51–63. ISBN 0-393-03017-2.  
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Caltech Catalog" (PDF). Caltech. Retrieved May 28, 2011. 
  18. **^** Starr, Kevin (1997). "Unto the Stars Themselves, Astronomy and the Pasadena Perspective". _The Dream Endures: California Enters the 1940s_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. pp. 74–77. ISBN 0-19-515797-4.  
  19. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Goodstein, Judith R. (1991). "The Birth of Caltech". _Millikan's School: A History of the California Institute of Technology_. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. pp. 64–75. ISBN 0-393-03017-2.  
  20. **^** Goodstein, Judith R. (1991). "The Birth of Caltech". _Millikan's School: A History of the California Institute of Technology_. New York: W. W. Norton & Company. pp. 71–75. ISBN 0-393-03017-2.  
  21. **^** "History of Caltech". Nobelprize.org. Retrieved  June 18, 2010. 
  22. **^** "Fast Facts about Caltech History". The Caltech Archives. Retrieved  March 8, 2011. 
  23. **^** "Oral History – Allen J. Acosta" (PDF). Pasadena, California: California Institute of Technology. April–May 1994. Retrieved September 29, 2011. 
  24. **^** "U.S. Naval Activities World War II by State". Patrick Clancey. Retrieved  March 19, 2012. 
  25. **^** DuBridge, Lee A. "The President's Report." Engineering and Science 15.6 (1952): 9 http://calteches.library.caltech.edu/1280/1/DuBridge.pdf
  26. **^** Elliot, David C. (1986-01-01) "Project Vista and Nuclear Weapons in Europe." International Security. 11(1): 167.
  27. **^** McCRAY, W. PATRICK, (2004-01-01) "Project Vista, Caltech, and the dilemmas of Lee DuBridge Historical Studies in the Physical and Biological Sciences. 34(2): 340.."
  28. **^** "The 200-inch Hale Telescope". Caltech Astronomy. Retrieved  September 26, 2010. 
  29. **^** Gordon, Larry (August 6, 2007). "Caltech chemistry improves". _Los Angeles Times_. Retrieved  August 12, 2010. 
  30. **^** "Caltech's Underground History" (PDF). Joe Antognini. Retrieved August 12, 2010. 
  31. **^** "Collected Papers of Albert Einstein". Retrieved  January 16, 2011. 
  32. **^** "Campaign Summary" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on July 17, 2011. Retrieved January 16, 2011. 
  33. **^** "Joint Center for Artificial Photosynthesis". Retrieved  January 16, 2011. 
  34. **^** "Chameau to step down as president". Retrieved  February 19, 2013. 
  35. **^** "Caltech to Offer Online Courses through edX". Retrieved  September 16, 2013. 
  36. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ Arnold Thackray & Minor Myers, Jr. (2000). _Arnold O. Beckman  : one hundred years of excellence_. foreword by James D. Watson. Philadelphia, Pa.: Chemical Heritage Foundation. ISBN 978-0-941901-23-9. 
  37. **^** "Work begins officially on Caltech Auditorium". _The Independent (Pasadena, California)_. 9 January 1962.   `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  38. **^** Sinsheimer, Robert L. (1994). _The strands of a life the science of DNA and the art of education_. Berkeley: University of California Press. ISBN 9780520082489. Retrieved  6 April 2017. 
  39. **^** "Chemical Synthesis: A New Lab Gets it Together" (PDF). _Engineering and Science_. **49** (5). 1986.  
  40. **^** "Quantum leap: Caltech facility combines astronomy, astrophysics". AllBusiness. January 26, 2009. Retrieved  July 7, 2010. 
  41. **^** "Walter and Leonore Annenberg Center for Information Science and Technology". Caltech. August 10, 2009. Retrieved  July 7, 2010. 
  42. **^** "Caltech Cuts the Ribbon on Schlinger Laboratory". Caltech. March 9, 2010. Retrieved  July 7, 2010. 
  43. **^** "Perpetual Energy Systems Activates 1.1 MW Solar Energy System at California Institute of Technology". Business Wire. October 21, 2010. Retrieved  October 22, 2010. 
  44. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Bylaws". Board of Trustees, California Institute of Technology. June 12, 2009. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  45. **^** "Dr. Jean-Lou Chameau, President". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  46. **^** "Executive Compensation". The Chronicle of Higher Education. 2010. Retrieved  March 8, 2011. 
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Faculty Handbook". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 30, 2010. 
  48. **^** "2008 Annual Report" (PDF). Jet Propulsion Laboratory. Retrieved May 30, 2010. 
  49. **^** "Officers of the Corporation Trustees". Board of Trustees, California Institute of Technology. June 12, 2009. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  50. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  51. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  52. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  53. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  54. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  55. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  56. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  57. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  58. **^** "California Institute of Technology - U.S. News Best Grad School Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 6 June 2017. 
  59. **^** "California Institute of Technology - U.S. News Best Global University Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 8 July 2017. 
  60. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "Carnegie Classifications – California Institute of Technology". Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  61. **^** "Accreditation". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 29, 2010. 
  62. **^** "Statement of Accreditation Status – California Institute of Technology". Western Association of Schools and Colleges. April 2010. Retrieved  May 29, 2009. 
  63. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "Common Data Set 2012–2013" (PDF). Office of Budget & Planning, California Institute of Technology. Retrieved May 17, 2013. 
  64. **^** "Caltech Today Calendary". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 30, 2010. 
  65. **^** "Times Higher Education World University Rankings". Times Higher Education. 2011. Retrieved  January 21, 2012. 
  66. **^** "Times Higher Education World University Rankings – Top 50 Engineering and Technology Universities". Times Higher Education. 2011. Retrieved  January 21, 2012. 
  67. **^** "Times Higher Education World University Rankings – Top 50 Physical Sciences Universities". Times Higher Education. 2011. Retrieved  January 21, 2012. 
  68. **^** "QS World University Rankings 2010 – Citations per Faculty". QS World Universities. 2010. Retrieved  September 9, 2010. 
  69. **^** "Money's Best Colleges". Money. 2014. Retrieved  September 26, 2014. 
  70. **^** Zadrozny, Brandy (November 6, 2014). "The Daily Beast's Guide to the Best Colleges 2014". The Daily Beast. Retrieved December 17, 2014. 
  71. **^** "U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. 2016. 
  72. **^** "Caltech NAS Rankings". Caltech Graduate Studies Office. 2010. Retrieved  October 15, 2010. 
  73. **^** Avery, Christopher; et al. (2013). "A Revealed Preference Rankings of U.S. Colleges and Universities". _The Quarterly Journal of Economics_. Oxford University Press. **128** (1): 425–467. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.197.8685 . doi:10.1093/qje/qjs043. Retrieved  August 22, 2013. 
  74. **^** "Meet the Class of 2021". California Institute of Technology - Institutional Research Office.  
  75. **^** http://www.businessinsider.com/colleges-that-accept-students-with-the-highest-sat-scores-2016-8/#1-california-institute-of-technology-22
  76. **^** http://www.admissions.caltech.edu/content/class-profile
  77. **^** "Caltech Undergraduate Admissions: Costs". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 17, 2013. 
  78. **^** "Caltech Undergraduate Admissions: Options of Study". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 30, 2010. 
  79. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Office of the Registrar Newsletter". Caltech Office of the Registrar. 2010. Retrieved  December 15, 2010. 
  80. **^** "Caltech Undergraduate Admissions: Core Curriculum". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 30, 2010. 
  81. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hall, John D.; Green, Barbara C. (October 2009). "Information for Freshman Advisors, 2009–2010" (PDF). California Institute of Technology. Retrieved May 30, 2010. 
  82. **^** "Caltech Undergraduate Admissions: FAQ". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  June 1, 2010. 
  83. **^** "Caltech Undergraduate Admissions: Honor Code". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  June 1, 2010. 
  84. **^** "Top US Colleges – Graduate Salary Statistics". PayScale. Retrieved  May 17, 2013. 
  85. **^** "Colleges Worth Your Investment – Full List". PayScale. Retrieved  May 17, 2013. 
  86. **^** "Application Instructions – Required Tests" (PDF). Caltech. Retrieved October 25, 2010. 
  87. **^** "MD/PhD Program - Keck School of Medicine of USC". Retrieved  31 July 2016. 
  88. **^** "UCLA Caltech Medical Science Training Program".  
  89. **^** "Research Facilities". Caltech. Retrieved  October 25, 2010. 
  90. **^** "Faculty". Caltech. Retrieved  October 25, 2010. 
  91. **^** "Financial Support". Caltech. Retrieved  October 25, 2010. 
  92. **^** Funding for Caltech does not include NASA's funding for JPL.
  93. **^** "R&D expenditures at universities and colleges, ranked by FY 2008 R&D expenditures: FY 2001–08" (PDF). National Science Foundation. April 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010. 
  94. **^** "R&D expenditures at all universities and colleges without a medical school, ranked by all R&D expenditures, by source of funds: FY 2008" (PDF). National Science Foundation. April 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010. 
  95. **^** "Federally financed R&D expenditures at universities and colleges reporting federal agency detail, ranked by all federal R&D expenditures, by federal agency:FY 2008" (PDF). National Science Foundation. April 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010. 
  96. **^** "Federally financed R&D expenditures at universities and colleges reporting federal agency detail, ranked by all federal R&D expenditures, by science and engineering field: FY 2008" (PDF). National Science Foundation. April 2010. Retrieved May 29, 2010. 
  97. **^** "Annual Report 2008-2009". _California Institute of Technology_. April 2010. Retrieved  May 28, 2010. 
  98. **^** "Mathematical & Physical Sciences (MPS) Active Awards". National Science Foundation. Retrieved  October 23, 2011. 
  99. **^** "Science and engineering research space in academic institutions, by state, control, institution, and field: FY 2005" (PDF). National Science Foundation. 2005. Retrieved May 29, 2010. 
  100. **^** "Kavli Nanoscience Institute (website)". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 30, 2010. 
  101. **^** "SURF Annual Report 2010" (PDF). Caltech. Retrieved March 8, 2011. 
  102. **^** National Science Foundation. "nsf.gov - NCSES Baccalaureate Origins of S&E Doctorate Recipients - US National Science Foundation (NSF)". Retrieved July 3, 2015. 
  103. **^** "Home - www.innovation.caltech.edu". Retrieved  July 3, 2015. 
  104. **^** "U.S. Colleges and Universities- Utility Patent Grants, Calendar Years 1969–2008". U.S. Patent and Trademark Office. Retrieved  January 31, 2011. 
  105. **^** "Caltech Undergraduate Admissions: The Houses". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 30, 2010. 
  106. **^** Caltech Athletics. Retrieved November 19, 2007.
  107. **^** "About Caltech". Athletics.caltech.edu. Retrieved  October 10, 2015. 
  108. **^** Southern California Intercollegiate Athletic Conference. Retrieved November 19, 2007.
  109. **^** "Caltech Athletics — Fencing Team". Athletics.caltech.edu. Retrieved  October 13, 2009. 
  110. **^** Associated Press (January 7, 2007). "Caltech crushes Bard College to end 207-game slide". ESPN. Retrieved November 19, 2007. 
  111. **^** Branch, John (February 23, 2011). "Caltech Scores First Conference Victory Since 1985". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  February 23, 2011. 
  112. **^** Branch, John (December 15, 2010). "Sky-High SATs, but the Team's at Rock Bottom". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  December 17, 2010. 
  113. **^** "Caltech Athletics". Athletics.caltech.edu. Retrieved  October 13, 2009. 
  114. **^** "Pomona-Pitzer College vs Caltech (01–13–07 at Caltech Braun Center)". January 13, 2007. Archived from the original on December 23, 2007. Retrieved  November 19, 2007. 
  115. **^** "2007 Women's Basketball All-SCIAC Awards". March 7, 2007. Retrieved  November 19, 2007. 
  116. **^** College Women's Top UPA Rankings, Ultimate Player's Association. Retrieved November 19, 2007.
  117. **^** "Caltech baseball team ends 228-game skid". ajc.com. Archived from the original on February 6, 2013. Retrieved  February 3, 2013. 
  118. **^** "Caltech Glee Clubs".  
  119. **^** Hiszpanski, Anna (April 3, 2006). "Fleming Cannon Gone" (PDF). _The California Tech_. **107** (21). p.  3. Retrieved April 17, 2014. 
  120. **^** "Comedy on campus: MIT takes on Caltech for prank distinction". _The Boston Globe_. April 19, 2006. Retrieved  November 19, 2007. 
  121. **^** California Pulls Portal Prank on New York. Kotaku.com. Retrieved on 2013-07-21.
  122. **^** Caltech Opens Humanities School at MIT Campus, December 6, 2009
  123. **^** Citybeats: Future Tournament of Roses chief vows even better parades, _Pasadena Star-News_ , December 6, 2009
  124. **^** What's (Literally) Up with the TARDIS?, Caltech Features, January 6, 2011
  125. **^** Dr. Who's TARDIS Lands at MIT, Caltech, and Berkeley, by Alessondra Springmann, PCWorld, February 10, 2011
  126. **^** TARDIS on building 7, great dome, and beyond, _IHTFP Hack Gallery_ , April 25, 2011
  127. **^** "CatalogProductITems - Caltech Bookstore". Retrieved  July 3, 2015. 
  128. **^** "The Honor System Handbook from the Board of Control at Caltech.edu". Donut.caltech.edu. Retrieved  October 13, 2009. 
  129. **^** "Graduate Studies Office – The Honor Code". www.gradoffice.caltech.edu. Retrieved  March 29, 2013. 
  130. **^** Rodriguez, Juan (February 24, 2003). "Ricketts Pres. Apologizes". The California Tech. p. 5. 
  131. **^** http://caltechcampuspubs.library.caltech.edu/2580/1/Issue_8.5.pdf, pp. 2-4, 6-8. Retrieved May 21, 2017.
  132. **^** Mic. "Caltech's Shocking Lack of Diversity: A Microcosm for the United States?". _Mic_. Retrieved  2017-03-16. 
  133. **^** "Best Colleges: Highest graduation rates". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved May 28, 2010. 
  134. **^** "Universities: Caltech & M.I.T.: Rivalry Between the Best". _Time_. November 4, 1966. Retrieved  May 28, 2010. 
  135. **^** "Degrees of Success: Bachelor's Degree Completion Rates among Initial STEM Majors" (PDF). Higher Education Research Institute, University of California, Los Angeles. January 2010. 
  136. **^** "AAAS Presidents". AAAS. 2011. Retrieved  January 12, 2011. 
  137. **^** "Faculty". Caltech. 2010. Retrieved  January 2, 2011. 
  138. **^** "AAUP Faculty Salary Survey". The Chronicle of Higher Education. 2012. Retrieved  April 9, 2012. 
  139. **^** "Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index – California Institute of Technology". The Chronicle of Higher Education. 2007. Retrieved  May 30, 2010. 
  140. **^** "Caltech at a Glance". California Institute of Technology. Retrieved  May 23, 2016. 
  141. **^** Cipra, Barry (August 19, 2010). "Fields Medals, Other Top Math Prizes, Awarded". _Science Now_. American Association for the Advancement of Science. Archived from the original on August 22, 2010. Retrieved  August 19, 2010. 
  142. **^** Deborah Lee Soltesz. "USGS Astrogeology: Astronaut Harrison H. Schmitt". United States Geological Survey – Astrogeology Program. 
  143. **^** "In 1998, Celestis, at the request of NASA, provided a Luna Flight Capsule to the family and friends of the astronomer and planetary geologist Eugene Shoemaker. The Celestis Flight Capsule, containing a symbolic portion of Shoemaker's cremated remains, was attached to NASA's Lunar Prospector spacecraft and launched on a one-year mission orbiting the moon. On July 31, 1999, at the completion of Lunar Prospector's mission, the spacecraft was intentionally crashed into the moon's south pole, making Shoemaker the first human to be laid to rest on another celestial body. NASA called the memorial "a special honor for a special human being.""Clara Moskowitz (March 28, 2008). "Fly Me to the Moon...Forever". Space.com. 
  144. **^** "George O. Abell, Astronomy: Los Angeles". _calisphere_. University of California. Retrieved  9 April 2017. 
  145. **^** York Liao (BS 1967) Caltech News (1997). "Caltech Alumni Album Profiles '50s, '60s, '70s and '80s – York Liao '67". California Institute of Technology. 
  146. **^** Sabeer Bhatia, BS 1991 Caltech Media Relations (July 18, 2008). "SURFing the Waves of Success for 30 Years". California Institute of Technology. 
  147. **^** Benjamin Rosen, BS 1954Caltech Alumni Association. "Distinguished Alumni Award – Benjamin M. Rosen". Caltech Alumni Association. 
  148. **^** Cleve Moler, BS 1961 "Cleve Moler Elected Next SIAM President". Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics. December 16, 2005.  
  149. **^** Gordon Moore, PhD 1954 Caltech Alumni Association. "Distinguished Alumni Award – Gordon E. Moore". Caltech Alumni Association. 
  150. **^** Simon Ramo, PhD 1936  Caltech Public Relations (February 24, 2010). "The Singular Si Ramo". Caltech Today (via California Institute of Technology). 
  151. **^** Frank Oppenheimer, PhD 1939  Caltech Alumni Association. "Frank Oppenheimer". Caltech Alumni Association. 
  152. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ The Nobel Foundation (1956). "William B. Shockley – Biography". The Nobel Prize Committee (official site). 
  153. **^** Bill Roberts (November 1, 2005). "The Ten Most Influential Executives". EDN. 
  154. **^** "How he was miserable is more complicated than even I could get into a hundred thousand word book. There was something wrong with him. What was wrong with him, we don't really know. He was at best paranoid. He was probably obsessive-compulsive. The manuscript of the book has been shown to about six or seven psychotherapist, and I asked them for a diagnosis, and they came back with six or seven different diagnoses." Ira Flatow (interview) with journalist Joel Shurkin (July 21, 2006). "Electronics Pioneer William Shockley's Legacy". National Public Radio. 
  155. **^** "Shockley, whose role as coinventor of the transistor would win him a share of the 1956 Nobel Prize in physics, succeeded in luring a diverse group of accomplished scientists, including Moore, to the Shockley Semiconductor Laboratory, in Palo Alto, California. He then proceeded to antagonize and alienate enough of them to inspire an exodus."Hillary Bhaskaran (2002). "Calibrating Gordon Moore". Caltech News. 
  156. **^** "Joel Shurnkin: ...He decided he was going to be the first entrepreneur of the electronic age, and indeed he was. With backing from a man named Arnold Beckman, he founded Shockley Semiconductor in Palo Alto and he was going to build – at least at first he was going to build silicon transistors. It was his decision that they use silicon as opposed to germanium, otherwise we'd be talking about Germanium Valley out there instead of Silicon Valley. (Soundbite of laughter) "Ira Flatow (interview) with journalist Joel Shurkin (July 21, 2006). "Electronics Pioneer William Shockley's Legacy – Transcript". National Public Radio. 
  157. **^** "Ellen Williams (PhD '82) Nominated as Director of the Advanced Research Projects Agency-Energy". Caltech Alumni Association.  
  158. **^** "Distinguished Alumni Award – Frank Capra". California Institute of Technology.  
  159. **^** Office of Technology Transfer & Corporate Partnerships
  160. **^** Word Press, List of University Spinoffs
  161. **^** OTTCP's Startups Map
  162. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Caltech References in "Real Genius". Retrieved 2007-11-19.
  163. **^** Cowan, Douglas E. "Intellects vast and cool and unsympathetic: Science, Religion, and _The War of the Worlds_." _Journal of Religion and Film_ , Vol. 11, No. 1, 1 April 2007.
  164. **^** " "CURIOUS" from Thirteen/WNET". Thirteen.org. Retrieved October 13, 2009. 
  165. **^** "Documentary Focuses on Caltech Researchers" Caltech Press Release, 1 October 2007
  166. **^** "Film locations for Beverly Hills Cop". Movie-locations.com. Retrieved  October 13, 2009. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Caltech**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Official athletics website

  * v
  * t
  * e

California Institute of Technology  
  
---  
Research |

  * Einstein Papers Project
  * Infrared Processing and Analysis Center
  * Jet Propulsion Laboratory
  * Kerckhoff marine laboratory
  * LIGO
  * MonALISA
  * Palomar Observatory
  * W. M. Keck Observatory
  * Submillimeter Observatory
  * Table Mountain Observatory
  * Thirty Meter Telescope

  
  
Student life |

  * House System
  * Great Rose Bowl Hoax
  * Quantum Hoops
  * Tournament Park (South Athletic Field)

  
  
Miscellaneous |

Athenaeum  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in Los Angeles County  
  
---  
Public universities |

  * California State University
    * Dominguez Hills
    * Long Beach
    * Los Angeles
    * Northridge
    * Pomona
  * University of California (Los Angeles)

  
  
Private universities |

  * Academy for Jewish Religion
  * AFI
  * Alliant
  * AADA
  * American Jewish
  * AMDA
  * Antioch
  * Art Center
  * Azusa Pacific
  * Biola
  * CalArts
  * Caltech
  * Claremont Colleges
    * Claremont Graduate
    * Claremont McKenna
    * Harvey Mudd
    * Keck
    * Pitzer
    * Pomona
    * Scripps
  * Claremont Lincoln
  * Claremont School of Theology
  * Colburn
  * Drew
  * Fuller
  * Hebrew Union
  * King's
  * La Verne
  * Life Pacific
  * Loyola Marymount
  * Marymount California
  * Master's
  * Mount St. Mary's
  * National
  * Otis
  * Occidental
  * Pacific Oaks
  * PRGS
  * Pepperdine
  * SCI-Arc
  * SCU
  * Southwestern
  * USC
  * UWest
  * West Coast Baptist
  * WesternU
  * Whittier
  * Woodbury

  
  
Community colleges |

  * Antelope Valley
  * Cerritos
  * Citrus
  * Canyons
  * Compton
  * East LA
  * El Camino
  * Glendale
  * Long Beach
  * LA City
  * LA Harbor
  * LA Mission
  * LA Pierce
  * LA Valley
  * LA Southwest
  * LA Trade-Technical
  * Mt. San Antonio
  * Pasadena
  * Rio Hondo
  * Santa Monica
  * West LA

  
  
For-profit branches |

  * Abraham Lincoln University
  * American InterContinental
  * Art Institute
  * California College of Music
  * DeVry
  * FIDM−Fashion Institute of Design & Merchandising
  * ITT
  * Los Angeles College of Music
  * LA Film
  * Le Cordon Bleu
  * New York Film Academy (Los Angeles)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Polytechnic Institutes and Universities in the United States  
  
---  
Public |

  * AFIT
  * ASU at the Polytechnic
  * Arkansas Tech
  * Cal Poly (Pomona and San Luis Obispo)
  * Colorado Mines
  * Florida Poly
  * Georgia Tech
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas State University Polytechnic Campus
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Michigan Tech
  * Missouri S&T
  * Montana Tech
  * NJIT
  * New Mexico Tech
  * OSUIT
  * Oregon Tech
  * South Dakota Mines
  * Southern Poly
  * SUNY Poly
  * Tennessee Tech
  * Texas Tech
  * UW–Stout
  * Virginia Tech
  * WVU Tech

  
  
Private |

  * Caltech
  * Clarkson
  * Florida Tech
  * Harrisburg U
  * Illinois Tech
  * Indiana Tech
  * Lawrence Tech
  * MIT
  * New England Tech
  * NYIT
  * Northwestern Polytechnic
  * Rensselaer
  * RIT
  * Rose-Hulman
  * Stevens
  * Wentworth
  * WPI

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pasadena, California  
  
---  
History |

  * Hahamog-na
  * Rancho San Pasqual
  * Indiana Colony
  * Super Bowl XI XIV XVII XXI XXVII

|  
  
Government |

  * Mayor
  * City Council
  * City Hall
  * Pasadena Transit
  * Pasadena Unified School District
  * Pasadena Police Department

  
  
Culture |

  * Armory Center for the Arts
  * Brookside Golf Course
  * California Art Club
  * Convention Center
  * Kidspace Children's Museum
  * Norton Simon Museum
  * Pasadena Chalk Festival
  * Pasadena Museum of California Art
  * Pasadena Museum of History
  * Pasadena Symphony and POPS
  * Rose Bowl
  * Rose Bowl Aquatics Center
  * Rose Parade
  * USC Pacific Asia Museum

  
  
Neighborhoods |

| Downtown |

  * Civic Center
  * Old Pasadena

  
  
---|---  
Northwest |

  * Banbury Oaks
  * Brookside Park/Arroyo Terrace
  * Garfield Heights
  * La Pintoresca
  * Lincoln-Villa
  * Linda Vista
  * Muir Heights
  * The Oaks
  * Orange Heights
  * Prospect Park
  * Villa Parke

  
  
North Lake |

  * Bungalow Heaven
  * Catalina Villas
  * Lexington Heights
  * Normandie Heights
  * Olive Heights
  * Washington Square

  
  
Northeast |

  * Brigden Ranch
  * Casa Grande
  * Daisy Villa
  * East Washington Village
  * Jefferson Park
  * Victory Park

  
  
Far East |

  * California Village
  * Chapman
  * Eaton Canyon
  * Hastings Ranch

  
  
Southwest |

  * Annandale
  * Bellefontaine/Governor Markham
  * Lower Arroyo
  * Raymond Hill/Arroyo Del Mar

  
  
Southeast |

  * Lamanda Park
  * Madison Heights
  * Marceline
  * Oak Knoll
  * Playhouse District
  * South Lake

  
  
Education |

| Colleges and universities |

  * Pasadena City College
  * Art Center College of Design
  * California Institute of Technology
  * Fuller Theological Seminary
  * Pacific Oaks College
  * Providence Christian College
  * William Carey International University
  * Ambassador College (closed)
  * Highland College (closed)

  
  
---|---  
Landmarks |

  * Ambassador Auditorium
  * Paseo Colorado
  * Pasadena Conference Center

  
  
Media |

  * _Pasadena Star-News_
  * _Pasadena Weekly_

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Global Alliance of Technological Universities  
  
---  
  
  * California Institute of Technology
  * Carnegie Mellon University
  * ETH Zurich
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * Imperial College London
  * Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
  * Nanyang Technological University
  * Shanghai Jiao Tong University
  * Technical University of Munich
  * University of New South Wales

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of Pacific Rim Universities  
  
---  
  
Australia

    Australian National
    Melbourne
    Sydney
    UNSW
Canada

    British Columbia
Chile

    Chile
China

    Fudan
    Nanjing
    Peking
    Tsinghua
    USTC
    Zhejiang
Hong Kong

    HKU
    HKUST
Indonesia

    Indonesia
Japan

    Keio
    Kyoto
    Osaka
    Tohoku
    Tokyo
    Waseda
Malaysia

    Malaya
Mexico

    Monterrey Institute of Technology
    UNAM
New Zealand

    Auckland
Philippines

    Philippines

    Baguio
    Cebu
    Diliman
    Los Baños
    Manila
    Mindanao
    Open University
    Visayas

Russia

    Far Eastern Federal (FEFU)
Singapore

    NUS
South Korea

    Seoul National
    Korea
    Yonsei
Taiwan

    National Taiwan
Thailand

    Chulalongkorn
USA

    Caltech
    Stanford
    California

    Berkeley
    Davis
    Irvine
    Los Angeles
    San Diego
    Santa Barbara
    Oregon
    USC
    Washington  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Southern California Intercollegiate Athletic Conference  
  
---  
  
  * Caltech
  * California Lutheran
  * Chapman
  * Claremont-Mudd-Scripps
  * La Verne
  * Occidental Tigers
  * Pomona-Pitzer
  * Redlands
  * Whittier

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

California engineering colleges with ABET-accredited programs  
  
---  
California State University |

  * Cal Poly Pomona
  * Cal Poly San Luis Obispo
  * Cal State Long Beach
  * Cal State Fullerton
  * San Diego State
  * Davidson College at San José State

  
  
University of California |

  * Baskin School at UC Santa Cruz
  * Bourns College at UC Riverside
  * Henry Samueli School at UC Irvine
  * Henry Samueli School at UCLA
  * Jacobs School at UC San Diego
  * UC Berkeley
  * UC Davis
  * UC Santa Barbara

  
  
Private |

  * Caltech
  * Harvey Mudd College
  * Stanford
  * Santa Clara
  * Viterbi School at USC
  * California Baptist University

  
  
  * California portal
  * University portal

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=California_Institute_of_Technology&oldid=816471076"

Categories:

  * California Institute of Technology
  * 1891 establishments in California
  * Buildings and structures in Pasadena, California
  * Education in Pasadena, California
  * Educational institutions established in 1891
  * Engineering universities and colleges in California
  * Private universities and colleges in California
  * San Gabriel Valley
  * Schools accredited by the Western Association of Schools and Colleges
  * Science and technology in the Greater Los Angeles Area
  * Technological universities in the United States
  * Universities and colleges in Los Angeles County, California
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL
  * Use mdy dates from April 2012
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2014
  * All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from July 2014
  * Articles with unsourced statements from October 2012
  * Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * Alemannisch
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Galego
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Magyar
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * مصرى
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 December 2017, at 15:23.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

