# Carnegie Mellon University

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Carnegie Mellon University  
---  
  
Former names

| Carnegie Technical Schools (1900–1912)  
Carnegie Institute of Technology (1912–1967)  
Carnegie-Mellon University (1968–1988) [1]  
Carnegie Mellon University (1988–present)  
Motto | "My heart is in the work" (Andrew Carnegie)  
Type | Private university  
Established | 1900 by Andrew Carnegie  
1967 (merger with Mellon Institute)  
Endowment | $1.709 billion (2016)[2]  
President | Farnam Jahanian (interim)[3]  
Provost | Laurie Weingart (interim)[4]  
  
Academic staff

| 1,423[5]  
Undergraduates | 6,362  
Postgraduates | 7,141  
  
Other students

| 145  
Location | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States  
Campus | Urban, 140 acres (57 ha)[6]  
Colors | Cardinal, Black, Grey and White  
Athletics | NCAA Division III UAA, ACHA, IRA  
17 varsity teams[7]  
Nickname | Tartans  
Mascot | Scotty the Scottish Terrier[8]  
Website | www.cmu.edu  
  
Coordinates: 40°26′36″N 79°56′37″W﻿ / ﻿40.443322°N 79.943583°W﻿ / 40.443322;
-79.943583

**Carnegie Mellon University** ( **Carnegie Mellon** or **CMU** / ˈkɑːrnɪɡi
ˈmɛlən/ or /kɑːrˈneɪɡi ˈmɛlən/) is a private research university in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Founded in 1900 by Andrew Carnegie as the Carnegie Technical Schools, the
university became the Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1912 and began
granting four-year degrees. In 1967, the Carnegie Institute of Technology
merged with the Mellon Institute of Industrial Research to form Carnegie
Mellon University.

The university's 140-acre (57 ha) main campus is 3 miles (5 km) from Downtown
Pittsburgh. Carnegie Mellon has seven colleges and independent schools: the
College of Engineering, College of Fine Arts, Dietrich College of Humanities
and Social Sciences, Mellon College of Science, Tepper School of Business, H.
John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy, and the
School of Computer Science. The university also has campuses in Qatar and
Silicon Valley, with degree-granting programs in six continents.

Carnegie Mellon is ranked 25th in the United States and 77th in the world by
_U.S. News& World Report_.[9] It is home to the world’s first degree-granting
Robotics and Drama programs,[10] as well as one of the first Computer Science
departments.[11] The university was ranked 89th for R &D in 2015 having spent
$242 million.[12]

Carnegie Mellon counts 13,650 students from 114 countries, over 100,000 living
alumni, and over 5,000 faculty and staff. Past and present faculty and alumni
include 20 Nobel Prize Laureates,[13] 12 Turing Award winners, 22 Members of
the American Academy of Arts & Sciences,[14] 19 Fellows of the American
Association for the Advancement of Science, 72 Members of the National
Academies, 114 Emmy Award winners, 44 Tony Award laureates, and 7 Academy
Award winners.[15]

## Contents

  * 1 Institutional formation
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 Campus architecture and design
    * 2.2 Present
  * 3 Admissions and enrollment
  * 4 Rankings and reputation
  * 5 International activities
  * 6 In popular culture
  * 7 Schools and divisions
    * 7.1 Libraries
    * 7.2 Collaboration with the University of Pittsburgh
  * 8 Discoveries and innovation
    * 8.1 Computer & Applied Sciences
    * 8.2 Companies & Entrepreneurship
  * 9 Research
  * 10 Alumni and faculty
  * 11 Student life
    * 11.1 Traditions
    * 11.2 Housing
    * 11.3 Fraternities and sororities
  * 12 Athletics
    * 12.1 Football
    * 12.2 Track and cross country
    * 12.3 Volleyball
    * 12.4 Cricket
  * 13 See also
  * 14 Notes and references
  * 15 External links

## Institutional formation[edit]

Andrew Carnegie, founder of the Carnegie Technical Schools

The Carnegie Technical Schools were founded in 1900 in Pittsburgh[16] by the
Scottish American industrialist and philanthropist Andrew Carnegie, who wrote
the time-honored words "My heart is in the work", when he donated the funds to
create the institution. Carnegie's vision was to open a vocational training
school for the sons and daughters of working-class Pittsburghers (many of whom
worked in his mills). Carnegie was inspired for the design of his school by
the Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, New York founded by industrialist Charles
Pratt in 1887.[17] In 1912 the institution changed its name to Carnegie
Institute of Technology (CIT) and began offering four-year degrees. During
this time, CIT consisted of four constituent schools: the School of Fine and
Applied Arts, the School of Apprentices and Journeymen, the School of Science
and Technology, and the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women.

The Mellon Institute of Industrial Research was founded in 1913 by banker and
industrialist brothers Andrew (who went on to become Treasury Secretary) and
Richard B. Mellon in honor of their father, Thomas Mellon, the patriarch of
the Mellon family. The Institute began as a research organization which
performed work for government and industry on contract and was initially
established as a department within the University of Pittsburgh. In 1927, the
Mellon Institute incorporated as an independent nonprofit. In 1938, the Mellon
Institute's iconic building was completed and it moved to its new, and
current, location on Fifth Avenue.

In 1967, with support from Paul Mellon, Carnegie Tech merged with the Mellon
Institute of Industrial Research to become Carnegie Mellon University.
Carnegie Mellon's coordinate women's college, the Margaret Morrison Carnegie
College closed in 1973 and merged its academic programs with the rest of the
university.[18]

Andrew Mellon, co-founder of the Mellon Institute

The industrial research mission of the Mellon Institute survived the merger as
the Carnegie Mellon Research Institute (CMRI) and continued doing work on
contract to industry and government. CMRI closed in 2001 and its programs were
subsumed by other parts of the university or spun off into independent
entities.[19]

## Campus[edit]

The main campus in Pittsburgh as seen from the 36th floor of the Cathedral of
Learning.

Carnegie Mellon's 140-acre (57 ha)[6] main campus is three miles (5 km) from
downtown Pittsburgh, between Schenley Park and the Squirrel Hill, Shadyside,
and Oakland neighborhoods. Carnegie Mellon is bordered to the west by the
campus of the University of Pittsburgh. Carnegie Mellon owns 81 buildings in
the Oakland and Squirrel Hill neighborhoods of Pittsburgh.

For decades the center of student life on campus was " _Skibo Hall_ ", the
University's student union. Built in the 1950s, Skibo Hall's design was
typical of Mid-Century Modern architecture, but was poorly equipped to deal
with advances in computer and internet connectivity. The original Skibo was
razed in the summer of 1994 and replaced by a new student union that is fully
wi-fi enabled. Known as _University Center_ , the building was dedicated in
1996. In 2014, Carnegie Mellon re-dedicated the University Center as the Cohon
University Center in recognition of the eighth president of the university,
Jared Cohon.[20]

A large grassy area known as "the Cut" forms the backbone of the campus, with
a separate grassy area known as "the Mall" running perpendicular. The Cut was
formed by filling in a ravine (hence the name) with soil from a nearby hill
that was leveled to build the College of Fine Arts building.

The northwestern part of the campus (home to Hamburg Hall, Newell-Simon Hall,
Smith Hall, and Gates Hillman Complex) was acquired from the United States
Bureau of Mines in the 1980s.

In 2006, Carnegie Mellon Trustee Jill Gansman Kraus donated the 80-foot (24
m)-tall sculpture Walking to the Sky, which was placed on the lawn facing
Forbes Ave between the Cohon University Center and Warner Hall. The sculpture
was controversial for its placement, the general lack of input that the campus
community had, and its aesthetic appeal.[21]

In April 2015, Carnegie Mellon University, in collaboration with Jones Lang
LaSalle, announced the planning of a second office space structure, alongside
the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center, an upscale and full-
service hotel, and retail and dining development along Forbes Avenue. This
complex will connect to the Tepper Quadrangle, the Heinz College, the Tata
Consultancy Services Building, and the Gates-Hillman Center to create an
innovation corridor on the university campus. The effort is intended to
continue to attract major corporate partnerships to create opportunities in
research, teaching, and employment with students and faculty.[22]

A panoramic view of Carnegie Mellon University's Pittsburgh campus from the
College of Fine Arts Lawn.  
From left to right: College of Fine Arts, Hunt Library, Baker and Porter Hall,
Hamerschlag Hall, University of Pittsburgh's Cathedral of Learning (in the
background), Wean Hall and Doherty Hall, Purnell Center, and the Cohon
University Center. Also visible are "The Fence," and the "Walking to the Sky"
sculpture.

### Campus architecture and design[edit]

The campus began to take shape in the Beaux-Arts architecture style of Henry
Hornbostel, winner of the 1904 competition to design the original institution
and later the founder of what is now the Carnegie Mellon School of
Architecture. A college rumor holds that Hamerschlag Hall was designed so that
in the event the college was not successful it could be turned into a factory.

There was little change to the campus between the first and second World War.
A 1938 master plan by Githens and Keally suggested acquisition of new land
along Forbes Avenue, but the plan was not fully implemented. The period
starting with the construction of the Graduate School of Industrial
Administration building (1952) and ending with Wean Hall (1971) saw the
institutional change from Carnegie Institute of Technology to Carnegie Mellon
University. New facilities were needed to respond to the University's growing
national reputation in artificial intelligence, business, robotics and the
arts. In addition, an expanding student population resulted in a need for
improved facilities for student life, athletics and libraries. The campus
finally expanded to Forbes Avenue from its original land along Schenley Park.
A ravine long known as "The Cut" was gradually filled in to campus level,
joining "the Mall" as a major campus open space.

Hamerschlag, Roberts, and Scott Halls are three of the teaching facilities of
the College of Engineering

The buildings of this era reflect current attitudes toward architectural
style. The International Style, with its rejection of historical tradition and
its emphases on functionalism and expression of structure, had been in vogue
in urban settings since the 1930s. It came late to the Carnegie campus because
of the hiatus in building activity and a general reluctance among all
institutions of higher education to abandon historical styles. By the 1960s,
it was seen as a way to accomplish the needed expansion and at the same time
give the campus a new image. Each building was a unique architectural
statement that may have acknowledged the existing campus in its placement, but
not in its form or materials.

During the 1970s and 1980s, the tenure of University President Richard Cyert
(1972–1990) witnessed a period of growth and development. The research budget
grew from roughly US$12 million annually in the early 1970s to more than
US$110 million in the late 1980s. The work of researchers in new fields like
robotics and software engineering helped the university build on its
reputation. One example of this approach was the introduction of the
university's "Andrew" computing network in the mid-1980s. This pioneering
project, which linked all computers and workstations on campus, set the
standard for educational computing and established Carnegie Mellon as a leader
in the use of technology in education and research. On April 24, 1984,
_cmu.edu_ , Carnegie Mellon's Internet domain became one of the first six .edu
domain names.

### Present[edit]

Wean Hall, home of the world's first internet-enabled soda vending
machine.[23]

In the 1990s and into the 2000s, Carnegie Mellon solidified its status among
American universities, consistently ranking in the top 25 in the national
_U.S. News& World Report_ rankings, and in the top 60 (ranking 55th in 2013)
amongst universities worldwide.[24][25] Carnegie Mellon is distinct in its
interdisciplinary approach to research and education. Through the
establishment of programs and centers that are outside the limitations of
departments or colleges, the university has established leadership in fields
such as computational finance, information systems, cognitive sciences,
management, arts management, product design, behavioral economics, energy
science and economics, human-computer interaction, entertainment technology,
and decision science. Within the past two decades, the university has built a
new university center (Cohon University Center), theater and drama building
(Purnell Center), business school building (Posner Hall), student union and
several dormitories. Baker Hall was renovated in the early 2000s (decade), and
new chemistry labs were established in Doherty Hall soon after. Several
computer science buildings, such as Newell Simon Hall, also were established,
renovated or renamed in the early 2000s (decade). The university has most
recently completed building the Gates Hillman Complex and continues renovating
historic academic and residence halls.

The Gates Hillman Complex, which houses the School of Computer Science.

The Gates Hillman Complex, opened for occupancy on August 11, 2009, sits on a
5.6-acre (2.3 ha) site on the university's West Campus, surrounded by Cyert
Hall, the Purnell Center for the Arts, Doherty Hall, Newell-Simon Hall, Smith
Hall, Hamburg Hall and the Robert Mehrabian Collaborative Innovation Center.
It contains 318 offices as well as labs, computer clusters, lecture halls,
classrooms and a 255-seat auditorium. The Gates Hillman Complex was made
possible by a $20 million lead gift from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
and an additional $10 million grant from the Henry L. Hillman Foundation. The
Gates Hillman Complex and the Purnell Center for the Arts are connected by the
Randy Pausch Memorial Footbridge.[26]

Cohon University Center, which contains an indoor swimming pool, bookstore,
student club facilities, gym, and cafeteria.

On April 15, 1997, Jared L. Cohon, former dean of the Yale School of Forestry
& Environmental Studies, was elected president by Carnegie Mellon's Board of
Trustees. During Cohon's presidency, Carnegie Mellon continued its trajectory
of innovation and growth. His strategic plan aimed to leverage the
University's strengths to benefit society in the areas of biotechnology and
life sciences, information and security technology, environmental science and
practices, the fine arts and humanities, and business and public policy. In
2006, following negotiations between President Cohon and South Australian
Premier Mike Rann, CMU opened a campus of the Heinz College in the historic
Torrens Building in Adelaide, Australia. President Cohon's term ended on June
30, 2013, after which he returned to the faculty at Carnegie Mellon.

On July 1, 2003, Carnegie Mellon launched "Insp!re Innovation", a $1 billion
comprehensive fundraising campaign. Half of the campaign goal is intended for
the endowment to provide long-lasting support for faculty, students and
breakthrough innovations. The campaign brought in a total of $1.19 billion,
with $578.5 million going toward Carnegie Mellon's endowment. It also enabled
the university to establish 31 endowed professorships, 97 endowed fellowships
and 250 endowed scholarships.[27] On September 7, 2011, William S. Dietrich
II, the former chairman of Dietrich Industries, Inc., a subsidiary of
Worthington Industries, Inc., pledged a gift of $265 million, effective on
October 6, 2011, upon his death. In response to this gift, Carnegie Mellon
renamed the College of Humanities of Social Sciences as the Marianna Brown
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences after William Dietrich's
mother.[28]

New York's Mayor Michael R. Bloomberg, and New York University's President
John Sexton on April 23, 2012, announced a historic agreement between New York
City, New York's MTA, and a consortium of world-class academic institutions,
and private technology companies, that will lead to the creation in New York
of a Center for Urban Science and Progress (CUSP). The Center for Urban
Science and Progress (CUSP) is an applied science research institute which
will be a partnership of top institutions from around the globe, led by New
York University with a consortium of world-class universities including: The
University of Warwick, Carnegie Mellon University, the City University of New
York, the Indian Institute of Technology Bombay, and the University of
Toronto.

In September 2012, Carnegie Mellon announced the construction of the Sherman
and Joyce Bowie Scott Hall on the Pittsburgh campus. The new building will be
situated between Hamerschlag Hall, Roberts Hall, and Wean Hall and will house
the university-wide Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation, a new
nanotechnology research center, the Institute for Complex Engineered Systems,
and the Biomedical Engineering Department.[29] Further, in November 2013,
Carnegie Mellon announced a $67 million gift from David Tepper, who previously
donated $56 million, to develop the Tepper Quadrangle on the north campus. The
Tepper Quad will include a new Tepper School of Business facility across
Forbes Avenue from a renovated and expanded Heinz College[30] as well as other
university-wide buildings and a welcome center which will serve as a public
gateway to the university.[31] Alongside the Tepper Quad and Hamburg Hall,
Carnegie Mellon will construct an innovation center with a $35 million gift
from Tata Consultancy Services which will partner with Carnegie Mellon to
develop technology and business solutions.[32]

On February 5, 2013 Carnegie Mellon announced the selection of Subra Suresh,
Director of the National Science Foundation and Dean of the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology School of Engineering, as its ninth president
effective July 1, 2013[33] Suresh stepped down in June, 2017 and Carnegie
Mellon expects to conduct a national search for his permanent replacement.

Peer institutions of Carnegie Mellon's institutional research and analysis
program include Caltech, Cornell, Duke, Emory, Georgia Tech, MIT,
Northwestern, Princeton, Rice, RPI, Stanford, University of Pennsylvania and
Washington University.[34]

## Admissions and enrollment[edit]

Posner Hall, home of the Tepper School of Business

For the Class of 2021, Carnegie Mellon had an overall admissions rate of
13.53%.[35] The acceptance rates of the individual colleges vary, ranging from
the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences (22%) to the School of
Computer Science (7%).[36] The average high school grade point average (GPA)
of the enrolled freshmen was 3.76, while the middle 50% range of SAT scores
were 660-750 for critical reading, 720-800 for math, and 670-760 for
writing.[35] The middle 50% range of the ACT Composite score was 31-34.[35]

The largest college, in terms of enrollment, is the College of Engineering
with 406 students in the class of 2020, followed by the Dietrich College of
Humanities & Social Sciences with 273, and the College of Fine Arts with 242.
The smallest college in terms of total undergraduate enrollment is the Tepper
School of Business, with 146. Carnegie Mellon enrolls students from all 50
states and the District of Columbia, and 15.6% of the students are citizens of
countries other than the United States, representing more than 40 countries.
Undergraduate tuition is $49,610 and room and board is $12,830 plus additional
costs.[37] Carnegie Mellon graduates 62% of its undergraduate students in
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics fields, the 13th highest
percentage in the United States amongst national research universities.[38]

## Rankings and reputation[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[39] |  40  
_Forbes_[40] |  63  
_U.S. News& World Report_[41] |  25  
_Washington Monthly_[42] |  102  
Global  
_ARWU_[43] |  80  
_QS_[44] |  47  
_Times_[45] |  24  
_U.S. News& World Report_[46] |  77  
  
Globally in 2017-2018, Carnegie Mellon University was ranked 77th by U.S. News
& World Report, 80th by ARWU, 24th by _Times Higher Education_ and 47th by _QS
World University Rankings_.

Nationally, _U.S. News& World Report_ ranks Carnegie Mellon tied for 25th
among American research universities in 2018.[47] _U.S. News_ also ranked
Carnegie Mellon 1st for graduate studies in computer science, tied for 5th for
graduate studies in engineering, 6th for graduate studies in fine arts, 13th
for graduate studies in public affairs, 9th for graduate studies in
statistics, 20th for graduate studies in economics, 19th for graduate studies
in business, and 17th for graduate studies in psychology in 2016.[48]

The undergraduate business program is ranked 2nd for management information
systems, 2nd for production/operations and quantitative analysis, 8th for
supply chain management, and tied for 6th as an undergraduate business program
overall.[47] The undergraduate engineering program at colleges that offer
doctorates as the highest degree was ranked tied for 8th overall, 5th for
computer engineering, 9th for environmental engineering, and 11th for
mechanical, electrical, and civil engineering in 2017.[47]

Carnegie Mellon was named one of the "New Ivies" by _Newsweek_.[49] In 2010,
the _Wall Street Journal_ ranked Carnegie Mellon 1st in computer science, 4th
in finance, 10th overall, and 21st in engineering according to job
recruiters.[50] Carnegie Mellon University ranks thirteenth among "Best
Colleges By Salary Potential (Bachelor's Only)" in the United States according
to _PayScale'_ s 2016–17 study.[51] In 2016, the Carnegie Mellon's Tepper
School of Business placed 15th in an annual ranking of U.S. business schools
by _Bloomberg Businessweek_.[52]

In 2016, The Hollywood Reporter ranked the School of Drama number three in the
world among undergraduate drama schools.[53] In 2015, the same publication
ranked the MFA program at the School of Drama number five in the world.[54]

In 2015, Carnegie Mellon University has been ranked The Best Information
Technology School in the United States.[55]

Carnegie Mellon is one of 62 elected members of the Association of American
Universities and one of 25 members (one of 12 American members) of the World
Economic Forum Global University Leaders Forum.[56]

## International activities[edit]

In addition to its Pittsburgh campus, Carnegie Mellon has a branch campus in
the Middle East, Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar, which offers a full
undergraduate curriculum with degree programs in computer science, business
administration, biology, computational biology, and information systems. The
campus is located in Doha’s Education City which is home to multiple other
U.S. universities all of which are funded by the Qatar Foundation. The Qatari
campus in particular has been the subject of criticism due to Qatar’s
adherence to Sharia Law and lack of freedom of speech and intellectual
freedoms. Questions have been raised about whether an American institution
that values these ideas can provide an equal experience in a community that
limits them.[57] Additionally, Carnegie Mellon and other U.S. Universities in
Education City have been criticized for being essentially complicit in Qatar's
funding of terrorist groups such as Al Qaeda, ISIS, and Hamas and their
questionable human rights record by continuing to operate there despite these
issues.[57][58][59][60]

It also has graduate-level extension campuses in Mountain View, California in
the heart of Silicon Valley (offering masters programs in Software Engineering
and Software Management). The Tepper School of Business maintains a satellite
center in downtown Manhattan and the Heinz College maintains one in Adelaide,
Australia. The Heinz College, the Institute for Politics and Strategy, and the
Department of Engineering and Public Policy host centers in Washington, DC as
part of degree programs, research, and government affairs initiatives as well
as being a part of the University of California, Washington Center. Carnegie
Mellon also established the Integrative Media Program at Steiner Studios in
Brooklyn, New York. Carnegie Mellon also maintains the Carnegie Mellon Los
Angeles Center in North Hollywood, California where students in the Master of
Entertainment Industry Management program are required to relocate to Los
Angeles in their second year and attend classes at this facility.

Carnegie Mellon's Information Networking Institute offers graduate programs in
Athens, Greece and Kobe, Japan, in collaboration with Athens Information
Technology and the Hyogo Institute of Information Education Foundation,
respectively. In the fall of 2007, the cities of Aveiro and Lisbon, Portugal
were added to the Information Networking Institute's remote locations. The
Institute for Software Research International (ISRI) offers graduate programs
in Coimbra, Portugal. The Entertainment Technology Center offers graduate
programs in Portugal, Japan, and Singapore. The Human-Computer Interaction
Institute offers a master's degree in conjunction with the University of
Madeira, in Portugal. The College of Engineering has an international location
in Kigali, Rwanda offering the Master of Science in Information Technology and
the Master of Science in Electrical and Computer Engineering.

## In popular culture[edit]

|

This section **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(November 2016)_ _(Learn how and when
to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
The Carnegie Mellon University campus in Pittsburgh has served as the locale
for many motion pictures. Alumnus George A. Romero filmed _Creepshow_ (1982)
in and around Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall.[61] Much of the on-campus
scenes in the 2000 film _Wonder Boys_ , starring Michael Douglas and Tobey
Maguire, were filmed in Carnegie Mellon's campus.[62] Other movies filmed at
Carnegie Mellon include _The Mothman Prophecies_ , _Dogma_ , _Lorenzo's Oil_ ,
_Hoffa_ , _The Dark Knight Rises_ , and _Flashdance_. The university is also
featured prominently in the films _Smart People_ , _Monkey Shines_ , and in
the anime _Summer Wars_. It was also referenced on an episode of _The
Simpsons_ , _Weeds_ , and in the television film _Mean Girls 2_. Carnegie
Mellon was identified as the university "Rat" went to in the science fiction
film _The Core_ , as well as the university that one of the astronauts
attended in the film _Deep Impact._[63]

The musical _Pippin_ was originally conceived by Stephen Schwartz as a student
musical performed by the Scotch'n'Soda student theatre troupe.[64] Schwartz
also collaborated with drama student John-Michael Tebelak to expand his
master's thesis project titled _Godspell_ , created under the direction of
Lawrence Carra, into a musical.

While enrolled at Carnegie Mellon, acting students Michael McKean and David
Lander (class of 1969) created the characters " _Lenny & Squiggy_". The pair
continued performing the characters in live comedy routines before joining the
cast of the TV series _Laverne and Shirley_.

In 2008, Carnegie Mellon professor Randy Pausch's "Last Lecture" became a pop
culture phenomenon. Based on a lecture he gave in September 2007 – shortly
after he learned his cancer had metastasized – his book quickly rose to the
top of bestseller lists around the country. Named in _Time Magazine_ 's "Time
100" list of influential people, he died in July 2008 from pancreatic
cancer.[65]

In 2003, Carnegie Mellon established the Robot Hall of Fame in partnership
with the Carnegie Science Center.

The 68th Tony Awards in 2014 announced Carnegie Mellon University as its first
educational partner in jointly awarding the "Tony Honor for Excellence in
Theatre Education", which will "honor kindergarten through high school (K-12)
theatre educators."[66]

## Schools and divisions[edit]

Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall, home of the Carnegie Mellon School of
Architecture and Carnegie Mellon School of Design

  * **TheCollege of Engineering** includes seven engineering departments: Biomedical Engineering, Chemical Engineering, Civil and Environmental Engineering, Electrical and Computer Engineering, Engineering and Public Policy, Mechanical Engineering, and Materials Science and Engineering, the Information Networking Institute, and the Engineering Research Accelerator.
  * **TheCollege of Fine Arts** is one of the oldest colleges of fine arts in the United States, and today it is a federation of five distinct schools: The School of Architecture, The School of Music, The School of Design, The School of Drama, and The School of Art. Unlike the other colleges at CMU, where switching between undergraduate programs within the student's currently enrolled college is relatively straightforward, switching to a different school within CFA often requires the student go through an application process similar to that of a High School student.[67][68][69] The college shares research projects, interdisciplinary centers and educational programs with other units across the university.[70] The College of Fine Arts runs masters programs in Arts Management and Entertainment Industry Management with the Hienz College.
  * **TheDietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences** is the university's liberal and professional studies college and emphasizes the study of the human condition through rigorous analysis and technology. Departments include English, History, Modern Languages, Philosophy, Psychology, Social and Decision Sciences and Statistics as well as an Institute for Politics and Strategy. The college also offers undergraduate degree programs in Information Systems and Economics (the latter jointly with the Tepper School of Business).
  * **TheH. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy** offers top-ranked master's degrees in Public Policy and Management, Health Care Policy and Management, Medical Management, Public Management, Information Systems and Management, Information Technology, and Information Security Policy and Management. The Heinz College also runs masters programs in Arts Management and Entertainment Industry Management with the College of Fine Arts. It consists of the School of Information Systems & Management and the School of Public Policy & Management. It also offers several PhD and executive education programs.
  * **TheMellon College of Science** includes four departments: Biological Sciences, Chemistry, Mathematical Sciences and Physics. In addition, the college is expanding efforts in green chemistry, bioinformatics, computational biology, nanotechnology, computational finance, cosmology, sensor research and biological physics.

The Hunt Library at Carnegie Mellon University is the largest library on the
Pittsburgh Campus

The Gates Center is a recent addition to the university's computer science
school.

  * **TheSchool of Computer Science** : Carnegie Mellon University helped define, and continually redefines, the field of computer science. The School of Computer Science is recognized internationally as one of the top schools for computer science.[71] The School of Computer Science includes seven departments: the Computer Science Department, Computational Biology Department, Robotics Institute, Institute for Software Research, Human-Computer Interaction Institute, Language Technologies Institute, and the Machine Learning Department.
  * **TheTepper School of Business** offers undergraduate programs in Business Administration and Economics (the latter jointly with the Dietrich College), master's degrees in Business Administration (MBA) and joint degrees in Computational Finance (MSCF) with the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences, the Mellon College of Science, the Heinz College, and the School of Computer Science. In addition, joint degrees are offered with Civil and Environmental Engineering and the Heinz College. The Tepper School also offers doctoral degrees in several areas and presents a number of executive education programs. Following a $67 million donation from David A. Tepper in 2013, the university sought to expand the undergraduate business program. In summer of 2015, the business program was revamped and a new curriculum was formally instated.[72]

Carnegie Mellon also runs the Integrative Design, Arts, and Technology
(IDeATe) Network to provide university-wide arts and technology education to
students from every college. IDeATe allows students to take minors or
concentrations in Animation and Special Effects, Entrepreneurship for Creative
Industries, Game Design, Intelligent Environments, Learning Media, Media
Design, Physical Computing, and Sound Design. IDeAte will also offer graduate
master's degrees in Emerging Media, Game Design, Integrative Innovation for
Products and Services, Computational Data Science, Urban Design, and
Production Technology and Management. IDeATe also manages the Entertainment
Technology Center (ETC) in conjunction with the School of Computer Science and
the College of Fine Arts. Each master's degree program has an option to study
in the CMU Integrative Media Program (IMP) at Steiner Studios in New York
City. IDeATe Network will be based on the Pittsburgh campus upon development
of recently acquired property on Forbes Avenue west of Junction Hollow.[73]

In addition to research and academic institutions, the University hosts
several other educationally driven programs. The Pennsylvania Governor's
School for the Sciences, a state-funded summer program that aims to foster
interest in science amongst gifted high school students is run on campus every
summer. The University also runs Pre-College, a 6-week residential program for
rising juniors and seniors in high school, with programs in Drama, Music, Art
& Design, Architecture, Game Design & Development, Humanities & Sciences,
Mathematics, and Computer Science. Additionally, the Carnegie Mellon Institute
for Talented Elementary and Secondary Students program (C-MITES) is hosted on
CMU campus. The Cyert Center for Early Education is a child care center for
Carnegie Mellon faculty and staff, as well as an observational setting for
students in child development courses. The Open Learning Initiative provides
free courses online in a variety of fields to students globally.

### Libraries[edit]

Carnegie Mellon University Libraries include Hunt Library, the Roger Sorrells
Engineering & Science Library, the Mellon Institute Library, the Posner
Center, and the Qatar Library. Additionally, the Libraries' Million Book
Project (2001–) sparked development of the Universal Digital Library. The
University Libraries host a number of full text special collections for public
access, including the Andrew Carnegie Collection, Herbert A. Simon Collection,
Allen Newell Collection, the H. John Heinz III Collection, the Pittsburgh
Jewish Newspapers Project, and the Posner Memorial Collection. Carnegie Mellon
students and faculty have access to the Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh and
some University of Pittsburgh libraries through consortial agreements with
those institutions. The Hunt Institute for Botanical Documentation (HIBD), a
research division of CMU, has a significant research library and art holdings
on the 5th floor of Hunt Library. The university's Software Engineering
Institute also houses a research library.

Carnegie Mellon also manages the Naval Reserve Officer Training Corps in
Pittsburgh on which students throughout Pittsburgh's universities rely.
Carnegie Mellon relies on the University of Pittsburgh to provide
opportunities in Army Reserve Officers' Training Corps and Air Force Reserve
Officer Training Corps to its students.

Carnegie Mellon University is accredited by the Middle States Commission on
Higher Education.[74]

### Collaboration with the University of Pittsburgh[edit]

Carnegie Mellon University neighbors the campus of the University of
Pittsburgh, and in some cases, buildings of the two universities are
intermingled. This helps to facilitate myriad academic and research
collaborations between the two schools,[75] including such projects as the
Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center, the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse, the
Immune Modeling Center, the Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, the
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, as well as the National Science
Foundation-supported Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center.[76][77] Further,
the universities also offer multiple dual and joint degree programs such as
the Medical Scientist Training Program, the Molecular Biophysics and
Structural Biology Graduate Program, the Joint CMU-Pitt Ph.D. Program in
Computational Biology, the Center for Neural Basis of Cognition, and the Law
and Business Administration program. Some professors hold joint professorships
between the two schools, and students at each university may take classes at
the other (with appropriate approvals).[78] CMU students and faculty also have
access to the University of Pittsburgh library system, as well as the Carnegie
Library of Pittsburgh. The two universities also co-host academic conferences,
such as the 2012 Second Language Research Forum.[79] In 2015, in conjunction
with the University of Pittsburgh and UPMC, Carnegie Mellon became a partner
of the Pittsburgh Health Data Alliance to leverage data analysis in health
care.[80]

## Discoveries and innovation[edit]

See also: Stanford discoveries and innovation, Illinois discoveries and
innovation, MIT discoveries and innovation, and Cal Berkeley discoveries and
innovation

Simplified evolution of Unix systems. The Mach kernel was a fork from BSD 4.3
that led to NeXTSTEP / OpenStep, upon which macOS and iOS is based.

### Computer & Applied Sciences[edit]

  * Alice (software) \- freeware (for non-commercial purposes) object-based educational programming language with an integrated development environment (IDE).[81]
  * Andrew Project \- distributed computing environment developed at Carnegie Mellon University beginning in 1982. It was an ambitious project for its time and resulted in an unprecedentedly vast and accessible university computing infrastructure. The goal was to have connected 3M computer workstations.[82]
  * Artificial intelligence \- Several of the first AI software programs were created at Carnegie Mellon. These include the Logic Theorist, General Problem Solver, and Soar.
  * Autonomous vehicle \- Navlab, the first autonomous car program was developed by Carnegie Mellon. Since then, H1ghlander and Sandstorm autonomous vehicles were developed at Carnegie Mellon and placed 3rd and 2nd in the DARPA Grand Challenge and Carnegie Mellon's Boss won the DARPA Grand Challenge (2007). The university continues to be a leader in autonomous research and development.
  * BLISS \- system programming language developed at Carnegie Mellon University by W. A. Wulf, D. B. Russell, and A. N. Habermann around 1970. It was perhaps the best known systems programming language right up until C made its debut a few years later.[83]
  * Mach (kernel) \- Richard Rashid and Avie Tevanian developed Mach at Carnegie Mellon from 1985 to 1994, ending with Mach 3.0, which is a true microkernel. Mach was developed as a replacement for the kernel in the BSD version of Unix, so no new operating system would have to be designed around it. Experimental research on Mach appears to have ended, although Mach and its derivatives exist within a number of commercial operating systems. These include NeXTSTEP and OpenStep, upon which macOS and iOS are based.[84]
  * Wi-fi network \- Alex Hills created the first wi-fi network using a local area network (LAN) on the Carnegie Mellon campus in 1993.[85][86]

[87]

### Companies & Entrepreneurship[edit]

Carnegie Mellon University's alumni and faculty have founded many companies,
some of which are shown below.[88][89]

  * Adobe Systems, 1982, co-founder Charles Geschke (Ph.D.).
  * IDEO, 1991, founder & chairman David Kelley (B.S.)
  * Appaloosa Management, 1993, co-founder David Tepper (M.B.A).
  * Red Hat, 1993, co-founder Marc Ewing (B.S).
  * Xerox PARC, 1970, founding director, George Pake (B.S., M.S.)
  * Sun Microsystems, 1982, co-founders Vinod Khosla (B.S) and Andy Bechtolsheim (M.S).
  * BodyMedia, 1999, co-founder Astro Teller (Ph.D.).
  * Cellomics, 1996, founder D. Lansing Taylor (Professor).
  * Dansk International Designs, 1974, founder Ted Nierenberg (B.S).
  * FORE Systems, 1990, founder Francois Bitz (Professor).
  * Activision, 1979, founding CEO Jim Levy (B.S., M.S.)
  * Juniper Networks, 1996, founder Pradeep Sindhu (Ph.D.).
  * DuoLingo, 2011, founders Luis von Ahn (Ph.D.) & Severin Hacker (Ph.D.).
  * Lycos, 1994, founder Michael Loren Mauldin (Ph.D.).
  * Vivisimo, 2000, co-founder Raul Valdes-Perez (Professor, Ph.D.).

## Research[edit]

Scarab lunar rover is being developed by the RI.

For the 2006 fiscal year, the University spent $315 million on research. The
primary recipients of this funding were the School of Computer Science ($100.3
million), the Software Engineering Institute ($71.7 million), the College of
Engineering ($48.5 million), and the Mellon College of Science ($47.7
million). The research money comes largely from federal sources, with federal
investment of $277.6 million. The federal agencies that invest the most money
are the National Science Foundation and the Department of Defense, which
contribute 26% and 23.4% of the total university research budget
respectively.[37]

The recognition of Carnegie Mellon as one of the best research facilities in
the nation has a long history, as early as the 1987 Federal budget CMU was
ranked as third in the amount of research dollars with $41.5 million with only
MIT and Johns Hopkins receiving more research funds from the Department of
Defense.[90]

The **Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center** (PSC) is a joint effort between
Carnegie Mellon University, University of Pittsburgh, and Westinghouse
Electric Company. PSC was founded in 1986 by its two scientific directors, Dr.
Ralph Roskies of the University of Pittsburgh and Dr. Michael Levine of
Carnegie Mellon University. PSC is a leading partner in the TeraGrid, the
National Science Foundation's cyberinfrastructure program.[91]

The **Robotics Institute** (RI) is a division of the School of Computer
Science and considered to be one of the leading centers of robotics research
in the world. The Field Robotics Center (FRC) has developed a number of
significant robots, including Sandstorm and H1ghlander, which finished second
and third in the DARPA Grand Challenge, and Boss, which won the DARPA Urban
Challenge. The Robotics Institute has partnered with a spinoff company,
Astrobotic Technology, to land a CMU robot on the moon by 2016 in pursuit of
the Google Lunar XPrize. The robot, known as Andy, is designed to explore
lunar pits, which might include entrances to caves.[92] The RI is primarily
sited at Carnegie Mellon's main campus in Newell-Simon hall.[93]

The **Software Engineering Institute** (SEI) is a federally funded research
and development center sponsored by the U.S. Department of Defense and
operated by Carnegie Mellon University, with offices in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA; Arlington, Virginia, and Frankfurt, Germany. The SEI
publishes books on software engineering for industry, government and military
applications and practices. The organization is known for its Capability
Maturity Model[94][95] (CMM) and Capability Maturity Model Integration (CMMI),
which identify essential elements of effective system and software engineering
processes and can be used to rate the level of an organization's capability
for producing quality systems. The SEI is also the home of CERT/CC, the
federally funded computer security organization. The CERT Program's primary
goals are to ensure that appropriate technology and systems management
practices are used to resist attacks on networked systems and to limit damage
and ensure continuity of critical services subsequent to attacks, accidents,
or failures.[96]

The **Human-Computer Interaction Institute** (HCII) is a division of the
School of Computer Science and is considered one of the leading centers of
human-computer interaction research, integrating computer science, design,
social science, and learning science.[97] Such interdisciplinary collaboration
is the hallmark of research done throughout the university.

The **Language Technologies Institute** (LTI) is another unit of the School of
Computer Science and is famous for being one of the leading research centers
in the area of language technologies. Primary research focus of the institute
is on machine translation, speech recognition, speech synthesis, information
retrieval, parsing and information extraction.[98] Until 1996, the institute
existed as the Center for Machine Translation that was established in 1986.
From 1996 onwards, it started awarding graduate degrees and the name was
changed to Language Technologies Institute.

Carnegie Mellon is also home to the **Carnegie School** of management and
economics. This intellectual school grew out of the Tepper School of Business
in the 1950s and 1960s and focused on the intersection of behavioralism and
management. Several management theories, most notably bounded rationality and
the behavioral theory of the firm, were established by Carnegie School
management scientists and economists.

Carnegie Mellon also develops cross-disciplinary and university-wide
institutes and initiatives to take advantage of strengths in various colleges
and departments and develop solutions in critical social and technical
problems. To date, these have included the Cylab Security and Privacy
Institute, the Wilton E. Scott Institute for Energy Innovation, the BrainHub,
the Simon Initiative, and the Disruptive Healthcare Technology Institute.

Carnegie Mellon has made a concerted effort to attract corporate research
labs, offices, and partnerships to the Pittsburgh campus. Apple Inc., Intel,
Google, Microsoft, Disney, IBM, General Motors, Bombardier Inc., Yahoo!, Uber,
Tata Consultancy Services, Ansys, Boeing, Robert Bosch GmbH, and the Rand
Corporation have established a presence on or near campus. In collaboration
with Intel, Carnegie Mellon has pioneered research into claytronics.[99]

## Alumni and faculty[edit]

Main article: List of Carnegie Mellon University people

There are more than 100,000 Carnegie Mellon alumni worldwide with the
graduating class of 2015.[100] Alumni and current/former faculty include 19
Nobel laureates, 14 Members of NAS, 50 Members of NAE, 114 Emmy Award
Recipients, 7 Academy Award Recipients, 43 Tony Award Recipients, and 12
Turing Award Recipients.[101] Famous alumni include artists Andy Warhol,
Philip Pearlstein[102], John Currin[103], Shalom Neuman[104], Jonathan
Borofsky[105] and Burton Morris;[106] Authors John-Michael Tebelak and Kurt
Vonnegut; Charles Geschke, Co-Founder and Chairman of Adobe Systems;[107]
Stephanie Kwolek, inventor of Kevlar; James Gosling, creator of the Java
programming language; Andy Bechtolsheim, co-founder of Sun Microsystems; David
Kelly, co-founder of IDEO; George Pake, founder of Xerox PARC; Marc Ewing, co-
founder of Red Hat; Jim Levy, founding CEO of Activision; former General
Motors CEO and Secretary of Defense, Charles Erwin Wilson; billionaire hedge
fund investor David Tepper; mountaineer and author Aron Ralston; Scott
Fahlman, creator of the emoticon; Chris Messina, creator of the hashtag; and
astronauts Edgar Mitchell (of Apollo 14) and Judith Resnik, who perished in
the Space Shuttle Challenger disaster.[108]

Overall, Carnegie Mellon is affiliated with nineteen Nobel Laureates,[109]
twelve Turing Awards winners, two winners of the Stockholm Prize in
Criminology, eight Academy Award recipients, one hundred and one Emmy Award
recipients (including ten time recipient Steven Bochco), and forty-one Tony
Awards recipients. John Forbes Nash, a 1948 graduate and winner of the 1994
Nobel Prize in Economics, was the subject of the book and subsequent film _A
Beautiful Mind_. Alan Perlis, a 1943 graduate, was a pioneer in programming
languages and recipient of the first ever Turing award.

  * Pop art sensation Andy Warhol

  * Inventor of Java, James Gosling

  * Winner of the 1994 Nobel Prize in Economics John Forbes Nash

  * Billionaire hedge fund investor David Tepper

  * Co-founder of Sun Microsystems Andreas Bechtolsheim

  * Inventor of Kevlar Stephanie Kwolek

  * Former US Secretary of Defense Charles Wilson

  * Chairman and co-founder of Adobe Systems Charles Geschke

  * Ten-time Emmy award recipient Steven Bochco

  * Author of "The Last Lecture" Randy Pausch

## Student life[edit]

Carnegie Mellon's student life includes over 225 student organizations, art
galleries, and various unique traditions. Student organizations provide
social, service, media, academic, spiritual, recreational, sport, religious,
political, cultural, and governance opportunities. Carnegie Mellon's campus
houses several galleries such as _The Frame_ , a student-devoted gallery, and
the Regina Gouger Miller Gallery, an art gallery that specializes in
contemporary professional artists. The Carnegie Mellon School of Music,
Carnegie Mellon School of Drama and the student-run theatrical organization
Scotch'n'Soda provides campus with a variety of world-class performance arts
events. The university has a strong Scottish motif inspired by Andrew
Carnegie's Scottish heritage, as well as the Mellon family's Scots-Irish
ancestry. Examples include Scotty, the Scottish Terrier mascot, _The Tartan_
student newspaper, Skibo Gymnasium, The Thistle yearbook, and the Céilidh
weekend every fall semester for homecoming.

###  Traditions[edit]

Main article: Carnegie Mellon University traditions

The Fence

  * **The Fence** – In the early days of Carnegie Tech, there was a single bridge which connected Margaret Morrison Women's College with the Carnegie Institute of Technology. The bridge was a meeting place for students. In 1916, the bridge was taken down and the university filled in the area. The administration built a wooden fence as a new meeting place. The students did not understand why anyone would want to meet at a fence. Administration was about to give up and tear it down but that night a fraternity, as a prank, painted the entire fence advertising a fraternity party. Ever since, painting the Fence has been a Carnegie Mellon tradition.[110] The Fence at Carnegie Mellon lies at the center of campus, in the area known as "the Cut." Students guard the fence 24 hours a day, and, as long as two vigils are maintained, no other student may "take" the fence. The fence can then be painted by the group that has it, but only between midnight and 6  am. Only hand brushes may be used; the use of spray paint or paint rollers is considered vandalism and results in a fine. The previous paint cannot be stripped, and each new painting adds a new layer. The original wooden fence finally collapsed in the 1990s due to the weight from over 1' of surrounding paint, and was immediately replaced with an identical one manufactured from concrete. Today the fence is considered "the world's most painted object," by the Guinness Book of World Records.
  * **Spring Carnival** – Usually held in April, Spring Carnival is the biggest event of the school year. In addition to classic carnival attractions, the Spring Carnival features the "Buggy Sweepstakes" and "Booth" (a competition between various organizations to build small, elaborate booths based on a theme chosen each year).

Two pushers exchange the buggy for Kappa Delta Rho on the first hill of
Sweepstakes.

  * **Buggy Races** – Buggy, officially called Sweepstakes, is a race around Schenley Park. It can be thought of as a relay race with five runners, using the buggy vehicle as the baton. Entrants submit a small, usually torpedo-shaped, vehicle that is pushed uphill and then allowed to roll downhill. The vehicles are unpowered, including the prohibition of such energy-storing devices as flywheels. They are, however, steered by a driver who is usually a petite female student lying prone, arms stretched forward to steer via a turning mechanism. Space is so tight inside the buggies that the drivers usually cannot change position beyond turning their heads.

A Mobot competing in the annual Mobot challenge

  * **Mobot** – "Mobot,' a portmanteau for "mobile robot," is an annual competition at Carnegie Mellon that made its debut in 1994. In this event, robots try (autonomously) to pass through gates, in order, and reach the finish line. There is a white line on the pavement connecting the gates, and the line is normally used to find the gates, though it is not mandated by the rules that the robots follow the line.
  * **Bagpipers** – As one of only a handful of colleges offering a bachelor's degree in bagpipe music and the only to offer a Masters, Carnegie Mellon University's Pipes and Drums features the sounds of Scottish bagpipes and performs at University events. Director of the Pipes and Drums is champion piper Andrew Carlisle from Northern Ireland, a highly decorated solo piper and longtime member of nine times World Pipe Band Champions Field Marshal Montgomery. The ensemble actively competes at Highland Games in Grade Three in the Eastern United States.
  * **TheKiltie Band** \- Carnegie Mellon's Kiltie Band, dressed in full Scottish regalia including kilts and knee socks, performs during every home football game.
  * **Autographing the Green Room** – Seniors in the College of Fine Arts sign the Green Room's walls and ceilings before leaving the university. Supposedly, Oscar-winning actress Holly Hunter broke university tradition by signing the Green Room during her freshman year. With the construction of the Purnell Center in 1998 the School of Drama no longer occupied the old Green Room, so this tradition has gone away.

###  Housing[edit]

Carnegie Mellon offers conventional housing for its students through single-
gender, coeducational, and special interest options. Students can choose from
a variety of housing options. The three options for first-year students are
standard, prime, and apartment-style living. Standard is a typical college
dormitory setting, a long hallway with a series of double (two people to a
room). Prime offers more privacy through suite-style rooms. Apartment-style
living is available through the Residence on Fifth and Shirley apartments.
Upperclassmen have additional options for housing which include town houses
and a larger variety of one or two bedroom apartments. There are 20
residential buildings on campus and five off campus in the Oakland area of
Pittsburgh.[111]

First-year students are assigned to the dedicated first-year residence halls
on campus including: Morewood E-Tower, Residence on Fifth, Shirley Apartments,
as well as Boss, Donner, Hamerschlag, McGill, Mudge, Scobell, and Stever
houses. Approximately a third of upperclassmen choose to continue living on
campus through university housing. Options for upperclassmen include: Morewood
Gardens, West Wing, Doherty, Fairfax, Margaret Morrison, Neville, Shady Oak,
Shirley, and Woodlawn Apartments as well as Henderson, Resnik, Roselawn,
Spirit, Tech, Webster, and Welch houses.[111]

### Fraternities and sororities[edit]

Main article: Fraternities and sororities at Carnegie Mellon University

The Greek tradition at Carnegie Mellon University began over 100 years ago
with the founding of the first fraternity on campus, Theta Xi, in 1912. The
Panhellenic sorority community was founded in 1945, by Chi Omega, Delta Delta
Delta, Delta Gamma, Kappa Alpha Theta, and Kappa Kappa Gamma. The Chi Omega
chapter at Carnegie Mellon transformed into an independent sorority, Zeta Psi
Sigma, and has since become Alpha Chi Omega. The Alpha Phi chapter was created
in April 2013. There is one Asian American interest sorority – alpha Kappa
Delta Phi (colony), and one Asian American interest fraternity – Lambda Phi
Epsilon.

Currently, Carnegie Mellon University has thirteen active fraternities: Alpha
Epsilon Pi, Alpha Phi Alpha, Alpha Tau Omega (colony), Alpha Sigma Phi, Delta
Tau Delta, Kappa Sigma, Lambda Phi Epsilon, Phi Delta Theta, Pi Kappa Alpha,
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Sigma Chi, Sigma Nu, and Sigma Phi Epsilon.

In addition to participating in campus traditions such as Buggy and Booth, the
fraternities and sororities hold an annual fundraiser called Greek Sing, one
of the largest Greek events of the year. Each year, the organizations vote on
a cause to support and raise money through ticket sales, ad sales, corporate
sponsorships and donations. Each organization performs a 13-minute-long
original show or a rendition of a popular show. In Spring 2010, Greek Sing
raised over $42,000 for St. Jude Children's Research

## Athletics[edit]

Official athletics logo.

The Carnegie Mellon Tartans were a founding member of the University Athletic
Association of NCAA Division III. Prior to World War II Carnegie Mellon (as
Carnegie Tech) played with NCAA Division I teams. In 1936 the Carnegie Tech
riflery team won the national intercollegiate championship.[112] Currently,
varsity teams are fielded in basketball, track, cross country, football, golf,
soccer, swimming & diving, volleyball, tennis, hockey, and rowing. In
addition, club teams exist in ultimate frisbee,[113] rowing,[114] rugby,
lacrosse, hockey,[115] baseball,[116] softball, skiing & snowboarding,[117]
soccer, volleyball, water polo,[118] and cycling.[119] Carnegie Mellon
Athletics runs a comprehensive and popular intramural system, maintains
facilities (primarily Skibo Gymnasium, Cohon University Center, and Gesling
Stadium), and offers courses to students in fitness and sports. Carnegie
Mellon's primary athletic rivals are fellow UAA schools Case Western Reserve
University and Washington University in St. Louis; the Tartans have an
especially intense rivalry with the latter's football team.

Carnegie Mellon tennis courts.

### Football[edit]

Main article: Carnegie Mellon Tartans football

Football at Gesling Stadium.

On November 28, 1926, the 6–2 Carnegie Technical Institute football team shut
out the undefeated Notre Dame Fighting Irish 19–0 at Forbes Field. Knute
Rockne, the coach of the Irish at the time, was so confident that the Irish
would defeat "tiny Carnegie Tech" that he decided to skip the game and travel
to Chicago to watch the Army-Navy football game for scouting purposes. It was
only later that he found out by telegram that the Irish had suffered their
first loss of the season. ESPN compared the upset to the Appalachian State
victory over the University of Michigan in 2007 [120] The game was ranked the
fourth-greatest upset in college football history by ESPN.[121]

Since 2014, the Tartans play in the Presidents' Athletic Conference at the
NCAA Division III level.

### Track and cross country[edit]

In recent years, the varsity track and cross country programs have seen
outstanding success on the Division III national level. The men's cross
country team has finished in the top 15 in the nation each of the last three
years, and has boasted several individual All-Americans. The men's track team
has also boasted several individual All-Americans spanning sprinting,
distance, and field disciplines. Recent All-Americans from the track team are
Tommy Vandenberg (2014–2015), Brian Harvey (2007–2009), Davey Quinn (2007),
Nik Bonaddio (2004, 2005), Mark Davis (2004, 2005), Russel Verbofsky (2004,
2005) and Kiley Williams (2005).

### Volleyball[edit]

With much of the team's support, Lauren Schmidt received the NCAA Pennsylvania
Woman of the Year award (2003), was a two-time All-American (2001 and 2002), a
four-time All-University Athletic Association selection (1999–2002), and the
conference's Player of the Year (2001).[122]

### Cricket[edit]

The Carnegie Mellon Cricket Club represents Carnegie Mellon in inter-
collegiate competitions. CMU cricket club are regular participants in American
College Cricket national championships. CMU were joint-runners up in the
first-ever American College Cricket Tournament held in Florida in Spring
2009.[123]

## See also[edit]

  * Pittsburgh portal

  * Association of Independent Technological Universities
  * Astrobotic Technology
  * Disney Research
  * EteRNA
  * IBM/Google Cloud Computing University Initiative
  * List of Carnegie Mellon University people

## Notes and references[edit]

  1. **^** "When did Carnegie Mellon University remove the hyphen in the university name? - Quora". Retrieved  October 20, 2016. 
  2. **^** As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  3. **^** As of June 30, 2017. "Interim President Appointment". Carnegie Mellon University. 2017. 
  4. **^** "Laurie Weingart Appointed Interim Provost of Carnegie Mellon University". cmu.edu. Retrieved  July 6, 2017. 
  5. **^** "CMU Fact Sheet" (PDF). cmu.edu. December 7, 2015. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 22, 2015. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "About the Tepper School Carnegie Mellon Campus". _Tepper School of Business_. Retrieved  15 Feb 2017. 
  7. **^** "2015–2016 Undergraduate Catalog: Department of Athletics and Physical Education". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved  October 15, 2015. 
  8. **^** "Carnegie Mellon's Mascot".  
  9. **^** http://www.cmu.edu/assets/pdfs/historicalrankings.pdf
  10. **^** http://www.drama.cmu.edu/4/our-mission
  11. **^** "Mission & History - Carnegie Mellon University - Computer Science Department". _www.csd.cs.cmu.edu_.  
  12. **^** "Rankings by total R&D expenditures". National Science Foundation. Retrieved  January 20, 2017. 
  13. **^** University, Carnegie Mellon. "Awards - CMU - Carnegie Mellon University". _www.cmu.edu_. Retrieved  2017-06-15. 
  14. **^** University, Carnegie Mellon. "Awards - CMU - Carnegie Mellon University". Retrieved October 20, 2016. 
  15. **^** "CMU About: Awards". Carnegie Mellon University. 2016. Retrieved  March 4, 2016. 
  16. **^** Committee on Education, United States House of Prepresentatives (1920). _Charges Against the Federal Board for Vocational Education, Volume 3_. Washington: Government Printing Office. Retrieved  June 25, 2015. 
  17. **^** "Boston Evening Transcript – Google News Archive Search". _google.com_.  
  18. **^** "History of MMCC". carnegiemellontoday.com. Archived from the original on February 21, 2009. Retrieved  February 15, 2008. 
  19. **^** "CMU closing its Carnegie Mellon Research Institute". post-gazette.com. Retrieved  October 1, 2013. 
  20. **^** "CMU student center to be renamed for Cohon". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 2014. Retrieved  March 25, 2014. 
  21. **^** "The Tartan reflects on the people and events of 2005–2006". The Tartan. 2006. Retrieved  January 7, 2009. 
  22. **^** "CMU proposes hotel, office, retail complex to help remake Forbes Avenue". The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 2015. Retrieved  April 23, 2015. 
  23. **^** "Randy Pausch's Last Lecture: Really Achieving Your Childhood Dreams" (PDF). Randy Pausch. Retrieved May 7, 2008. 
  24. **^** World's Best Universities; Top 400 Universities in the World. US News. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
  25. **^** QS World University Rankings – 2012. Top Universities (December 19, 2012). Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
  26. **^** "The Top 200 World Universities". timeshighereducation.com. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  27. **^** Inspire Innovation: About the Campaign – Carnegie Mellon Web Site.. Retrieved September 11, 2011.
  28. **^** "Bill Dietrich & Carnegie Mellon University".  
  29. **^** "Retrieved September 20, 2012". Cmu.edu. Retrieved  June 19, 2014. 
  30. **^** "Heinz Endowments Gift". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  December 12, 2013. 
  31. **^** "Retrieved November 15, 2013". Cmu.edu. November 14, 2013. Retrieved  June 19, 2014. 
  32. **^** "Retrieved August 25, 2015". Cmu.edu. August 25, 2015. Retrieved  August 25, 2015. 
  33. **^** "Retrieved February 5, 2013". Cmu.edu. February 5, 2013. Retrieved  June 19, 2014. 
  34. **^** "Peer institutions of Carnegie Mellon University". cmu.edu. Retrieved  March 28, 2009. 
  35. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Class of 2021 Ivy League Admissions States and Acceptance Rates". Carnegie Mellon University.  
  36. **^** "Undergraduate Admissions Statistics 2016-17". _Carnegie Melon Undergraduate Admissions_. Retrieved  April 7, 2017. 
  37. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Admission Costs". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved  December 26, 2015. 
  38. **^** "Top-Ranked Universities That Grant the Most STEM Degrees". U.S. News and World Report. Retrieved  June 18, 2013. 
  39. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  40. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  41. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  42. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  43. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  44. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  45. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  46. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Carnegie Mellon University: Best Colleges Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved September 16, 2016. 
  48. **^** "U.S. News Best Grad School Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved March 14, 2017. 
  49. **^** "America _s 25 New Elite_ Ivies _"_. newsweek.com. Retrieved  August 21, 2010. 
  50. **^** "The Top 25 Recruiter Picks". _Wall Street Journal_. September 13, 2010.  
  51. **^** "Best Universities and Colleges | Payscale". _www.payscale.com_. Retrieved  2016-12-20. 
  52. **^** "These Are The Best Graduate Business Schools of 2016". _Bloomberg.com_. Retrieved  2016-12-20. 
  53. **^** "The 25 Best Drama Schools in 2016". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved  June 2, 2014. 
  54. **^** "The 25 Best Drama Schools for a Master of Fine Arts". The Hollywood Reporter. Retrieved  May 29, 2015. 
  55. **^** "Carnegie Mellon University - Computer Ranking 2015". Retrieved  October 20, 2016. 
  56. **^** "Global University Leaders Forum 2015 Members List" (PDF). World Economic Forum. Retrieved August 11, 2015. 
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "In Qatar's Education City, U.S. colleges are building an academic oasis".  
  58. **^** Stoltzfus, Justin. "Advocate questions motive behind Qatar's financial ties to U.S. colleges". _Gulf News Journal_.  
  59. **^** "While U.S. universities see dollar signs in Qatari partnerships, some cry foul". _Gulf News Journal_.  
  60. **^** "Hate Preachers on Qatar Campus: Obama Gives Qatar Undeserved A+ on Fighting Incitement". April 29, 2016.  
  61. **^** "Alumnus Gets Star Treatment | Carnegie Mellon Today". _cmtoday.cmu.edu_. Retrieved  2017-01-23. 
  62. **^** "Major Motion Picture, "Smart People," To Be Filmed on Campus". _www.cmu.edu_. Retrieved  2017-01-23. 
  63. **^** "Carnegie Mellon on "The Simpsons" and "Lie to Me"- Carnegie Mellon University". Cmu.edu. February 16, 2009. Archived from the original on January 14, 2010. Retrieved  February 22, 2010. 
  64. **^** Holahan, Jane (December 7, 2006). "Creator on 'Pippin:' 'It was an inventive time'". Lancaster Online. Archived from the original on September 12, 2007. Retrieved December 30, 2006. 
  65. **^** KATIE COURIC Thursday, April 30, 2009 (April 30, 2009). "Randy Pausch – The 2008 TIME 100". TIME. Retrieved February 22, 2010. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
  66. **^** Gans, Andrew. "Zachary Quinto and Matt Bomer Will Introduce New Educator Honor at 2014 Tony Awards" Archived July 14, 2014, at the Wayback Machine. playbill.com, June 3, 2014
  67. **^** "TRANSFER STUDENTS". _Undergraduate Admission Requirements_. School of Drama. July 31, 2016.  [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  68. **^** "REGULAR DECISION & TRANSFER". _Undergraduate Admissions_. School of Architecture. July 31, 2016.  
  69. **^** "Transfer Applications". _Application Instructions & Timeline_. School of Design. July 31, 2016. 
  70. **^** "BXA Intercollege Degree Programs". _CMU College of Fine Arts_. July 31, 2016.  
  71. **^** "America's Best Graduate Schools 2009". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved March 28, 2008. 
  72. **^** "UBA Curriculum Change". Carnegie Mellon University.  
  73. **^** "Integrative Design, Arts, and Technology". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved  January 17, 2014. 
  74. **^** "Middle States Accreditation – Carnegie Mellon University". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved  January 26, 2013. 
  75. **^** Schackner, Bill; Chute, Eleanor (March 29, 2012). "Pitt, CMU make most of proximity". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  May 21, 2012. 
  76. **^** University of Pittsburgh: Undergraduate Admissions & Financial Aid Archived January 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. Pitt.edu. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
  77. **^** "Welcome". Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center. Retrieved  December 2, 2011. 
  78. **^** "Cross Registration". Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education. Retrieved  December 2, 2011. 
  79. **^** "SLRF 2012 in Pittsburgh". SLRF 2012 Organizing Committee. Archived from the original on January 19, 2012. Retrieved  December 2, 2011. 
  80. **^** "Three Pittsburgh institutions. One goal". Pittsburgh Health Data Alliance. Retrieved  March 16, 2015. 
  81. **^** "Alice.org".  
  82. **^** CMU's overview of the history of the Andrew Project Archived July 17, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  83. **^** http://www.cs.tufts.edu/~nr/cs257/archive/ronald-brender/bliss.pdf
  84. **^** McKusick, Marshall Kirk; Bostic, Keith; Karels, Michael J.; Quarterman, John S. (Apr 30, 1996). _The Design and Implementation of the 4.4 BSD Operating System_. Addison-Wesley. p. 123\. ISBN 9780768684940.  
  85. **^** "How Wi-Fi got its start on the campus of CMU, a true story".  
  86. **^** University, Carnegie Mellon. "Alex Hills-Engineering and Public Policy - Carnegie Mellon University". 
  87. **^** "Carnegie Mellon University - University Discoveries".  
  88. **^** University, Carnegie Mellon. "Affiliated Companies-Corporate and Institutional Partnerships - Carnegie Mellon University". _www.cmu.edu_. Retrieved  2017-11-25. 
  89. **^** "CMU Alumni" (PDF). 
  90. **^** "Pittsburgh Post-Gazette – Google News Archive Search". _google.com_.  
  91. **^** "PITTSBURGH SUPERCOMPUTING CENTER". Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  92. **^** "Carnegie Mellon Lunar Rover Wows XPRIZE Judges, Wins First Milestone Prize for Development Toward Flight Readiness - Carnegie Mellon School of Computer Science". Retrieved  October 20, 2016. 
  93. **^** "Robotics Institute". Robotics Institute. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  94. **^** Paulk, Mark C.; Weber, Charles V; Curtis, Bill; Chrissis, Mary Beth (February 1993). "Capability Maturity Model for Software (Version 1.1)" (PDF). _Technical Report_. Software Engineering Institute, Carnegie Mellon University. CMU/SEI-93-TR-024 ESC-TR-93-177.  
  95. **^** Paulk, Mark C.; Weber, Charles V; Curtis, Bill; Chrissis, Mary Beth (1995). _The Capability Maturity Model: Guidelines for Improving the Software Process_. SEI series in software engineering. Addison-Wesley. ISBN 0-201-54664-7.  
  96. **^** "Software Engineering Institute". sei.cmu.edu. Retrieved  February 16, 2008. 
  97. **^** "Welcome to the Human-Computer Interaction Institute". Human-Computer Interaction Institute. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  98. **^** "CMU/Language Technologies Institute". Language Technologies Institute. Retrieved  December 24, 2008. 
  99. **^** "The Claytronics Project – Collaborative Research in Programmable Matter Directed by Carnegie Mellon and Intel". Cs.cmu.edu. February 20, 2007. Retrieved  June 19, 2014. 
  100. **^** "We Are 100K Strong!". Retrieved  December 31, 2015. 
  101. **^** "Carnegie Mellon Fast Facts" (PDF). Archived from the original on December 22, 2015. Retrieved November 19, 2015. CS1 maint: Unfit url (link)
  102. **^** "Carnegie Museum of Art". _collection.cmoa.org_.  
  103. **^** "John Currin at Gagosian". _www.gagosian.com_.  
  104. **^** Higgins, Tim. "New York 'Fusion' artist Shalom Neuman brings philosophy to Easton". 
  105. **^** "Jonathan Borofsky Interview - Carnegie Mellon Today". _cmtoday.cmu.edu_.  
  106. **^** "Burton Morris: The King of Pop Art Hits the "Red Carpet "". Retrieved February 13, 2013. 
  107. **^** "Notable Alumni". Retrieved  November 19, 2015. 
  108. **^** "Judy Resnik : Family, Friends Remember Engineer Who Reached for the Stars". Retrieved  February 7, 2016. 
  109. **^** "Carnegie Mellon Nobel Laureates". Retrieved  October 12, 2010. 
  110. **^** "Walking Tour". cmu.edu. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  111. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "CMU Housing". Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from the original on July 24, 2011. Retrieved  July 26, 2011. 
  112. **^** "Intercollegiate rifle team trophy" (PDF). Retrieved September 5, 2009. 
  113. **^** "Carnegie Mellon Ultimate Club". cmu.edu. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  114. **^** "Tartan Crew". tartancrew.org. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  115. **^** "CMU Ice Hockey Club". Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  116. **^** "Join the Baseball Club". cmu.edu. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  117. **^** "Club Sports – Carnegie Mellon University Athletics". Athletics.cmu.edu. Retrieved  June 19, 2014. 
  118. **^** "CMUWP". cmuwp. Archived from the original on June 26, 2009. Retrieved  August 25, 2009. 
  119. **^** "Carnegie Mellon Cycling Club". cmu.edu. Archived from the original on September 5, 2008. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  120. **^** "Tech's Greatest Victory". carnegiemellontoday.com. Archived from the original on March 17, 2008. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  121. **^** "Upset special: With Rockne gone, Irish took a Michigan-like tumble". sports.espn.go.com. Retrieved  February 18, 2008. 
  122. **^** Wellsville Central Schools – Scrapbook. Wellsville.wnyric.org (August 30, 2012). Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
  123. **^** "About". CMU Cricket. Retrieved  June 19, 2014. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikisource has the text of the 1920 _Encyclopedia Americana_ article
_**Carnegie Technical Schools**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Carnegie Mellon Athletics website
  * Media related to Carnegie Mellon University at Wikimedia Commons

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * History
    * Timeline
  * Culture
  * Dialect
  * Media
  * Neighborhoods
  * Notable people
  * Skyscrapers

  
  
|

Government  
  
---  
  
  * Airport
  * Conventions
  * City Hall
  * Courthouse
  * Mayor
  * Council
  * Events
  * InterGov
  * Police
  * D.A.
  * Sheriff
  * Fire
  * Libraries
  * Transit
  * Education
  * Port
  * Regional

  
  
|

Economy  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Conference
  * Duquesne Club
  * Chamber of Commerce
  * Economic Club
  * HYP Club
  * Stock Exchange

  
  
---  
  
| Fortune 500 headquarters |

  * U.S. Steel
  * PNC Financial Services
  * PPG Industries
  * Kraft Heinz
  * Mylan
  * WESCO International
  * Consol Energy
  * Dick's Sporting Goods
  * Allegheny Technologies

  
  
---|---  
Forbes largest private  
companies headquarters |

  * 84 Lumber
  * Giant Eagle

  
  
Other corporation headquarters |

  * American Bridge
  * American Eagle Outfitters
  * Ampco Pittsburgh
  * ANSYS
  * Armstrong Communications
  * Atlas America
  * Black Box
  * Bruster's Ice Cream
  * Calgon Carbon
  * Compunetix
  * Dollar Bank
  * DQE Energy
  * Eat'n Park
  * EDMC
  * EQT Energy
  * Federated Investors
  * GNC
  * Guru.com
  * Highmark
  * H. Laughlin China
  * iGate
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Kennametal
  * Koppers
  * MARC USA
  * Millcraft Industries
  * Mine Safety Appliances
  * Niche.com
  * Oxford Development
  * PTC Alliance
  * Renda Broadcasting
  * rue21
  * University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
  * Vocelli Pizza
  * Wabtec

  
  
Companies with split headquarters |

  * Alcoa
  * ModCloth
  * NOVA Chemicals

  
  
Subsidiary company headquarters |

  * Allegheny Energy
  * Bayer Corporation
  * FedEx Ground
  * GlaxoSmithKline USA
  * LANXESS
  * Respironics
  * Vivisimo
  * Westinghouse Electric Company

  
  
Outside companies with  
strong Pittsburgh relations |

  * BNY Mellon (formerly Mellon Financial)
  * Dreyfus Corporation
  * Eaton Corporation
  * Spreadshirt
  * Macy's

  
  
Historic |

  * Fisher's Big Wheel
  * Clark Bar
  * Dravo
  * Fisher Scientific
  * Integra Bank
  * Mesta Machinery
  * G. C. Murphy
  * Gulf Oil
  * J&L Steel
  * Ketchum
  * Rockwell
  * Sunbeam
  * Westinghouse

  
  
List of corporations in Pittsburgh  
  
|

Sports  
  
---  
  
|

  * Dapper Dan
  * Grand Prix
  * Great Race
  * Head of the Ohio
  * Lore
  * Marathon
  * Mylan Classic
  * Regatta
  * WPHL

  
  
---  
Baseball |

  * Pirates
  * Wild Things
  * Panthers
  * Dukes

    _Chronicle-Telegraph Cup_
    Allegheny
    Burghers
    Champions
    Crawfords
    Filipinos
    Grays
    Hardhats
    Keystones
    Stogies
    Rebels  
  
Basketball |

  * Yellow Jackets
  * Panthers (m)
  * Panthers (w)
  * Dukes (m)
  * Dukes (w)
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)

    Roundball Classic
    Condors
    Ironmen
    Loendi
    Monticello
    Phantoms
    Pipers
    Piranhas
    Pirates
    Rens
    Xplosion  
  
Football |

  * Steelers
  * Panthers
  * Steeler Nation
  * heritage
  * Colts
  * Force
  * Passion
  * Renegades

    1898 All-Stars
    Allegheny
    Americans
    A's
    Duquesne
    Gladiators
    Homestead
    Lyceum
    Maulers
    Power
    Odds
    Olympics
    Quakers
    JP
    Stars
    Early Pro Football Circuit  
  
Hockey |

  * Penguins
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)
  * Three Rivers Classic

    A's
    Bankers
    Cougars
    Duquesne
    Ft. Pitt
    Hornets
    Keystones
    Lyceum
    Panthers
    Phantoms
    Pirates
    Pirates (WPHL)
    Pros
    Shamrocks
    Victorias
    Winter Garden
    Yellow Jackets  
  
Soccer |

  * Riverhounds

    Beadling
    Cannons
    Hurricanes
    Phantoms
    Spirit  
  
Other |

    Sledgehammers
    Bulls
    Harlequins
    PCC
    Triangles
    Wallabies
    Studio Wrestling
    Dirty Dozen  
  
Venues |

  * PPG Paints Arena
  * Heinz Field
  * PNC Park
  * 84 Lumber Arena
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Highmark Stadium
  * Palumbo Center
  * Petersen Events Center
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Rooney Field
  * Sewall Center
  * Trees Hall

    Central Park
    Civic Arena
    Duquesne Gardens
    Exposition Park
    Forbes Field
    Josh Gibson Field
    Greenlee Field
    Motor Square Garden
    Pitt Stadium
    Recreation Park
    Schenley Gardens
    Three Rivers
    Winter Garden  
  
|

Parks  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Arsenal
  * Allegheny Commons
  * Allegheny Riverfront
  * ArtGardens
  * Buhl Community
  * Chatham University Arboretum
  * Frank Curto
  * **Frick**
  * **Emerald View**
  * **Highland**
  * Market Square
  * Mellon
  * Mellon Green
  * Mellon Square
  * North Shore Riverfront
  * Phillips
  * Point of View
  * Point State
  * PPG Place
  * **Riverview**
  * Roberto Clemente Memorial
  * Rodef Shalom Biblical Botanical Garden
  * **Schenley**
  * Schenley Plaza
  * South Shore Riverfront
  * South Side
  * **Three Rivers**
  * West End Overlook
  * Westinghouse

  
  
---  
  
|

Transportation  
  
---  
  
|

  * Inclines
  * Steps

  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Port Authority of Allegheny County  
  
---  
Light rail  
(List of stations) |

  *      Blue Line – Library
  *      Blue Line – South Hills Village
  *      Red Line – Castle Shannon
  *      Red Line – South Hills Village

|  
  
Inclines  
(Historical list) |

  * Duquesne Incline
  * Monongahela Incline

  
  
Buses and busways  
(List of routes) |

  *      Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway
  *      South Busway
  *      West Busway

  
  
Former lines |

  * 47 Drake
  * Brown Line
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
Other |

  * North Shore Connector
  * Port Authority 4000 Series PCC
  * Wabash Tunnel

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Public transportation in Greater Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Bus services |

  * **Port Authority of Allegheny County**
    * list of bus routes
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Fayette
  * IndiGO
  * Mid Mon Valley
  * Mountain Line
  * New Castle
  * Town & Country
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Washington
  * Westmoreland

  
  
Bus rapid transit |

  * MLK Jr. East Busway
  * South Busway
  * West Busway

  
  
Light rail |

  * Red Line
  * Blue Line 
    * Library
    * South Hills Village

  
  
Inclines |

  * Duquesne
  * Monongahela

  
  
Amtrak |

  * _Capitol Limited_
  * _Pennsylvanian_

  
  
Airports |

  * **Pittsburgh International**
  * **Arnold Palmer**
  * Allegheny County
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Eddie Dew
  * Greensburg Jeannette
  * Herron
  * Jefferson
  * Jimmy Stewart
  * Joe Hardy
  * Lakehill
  * Monroeville
  * New Castle
  * Rock
  * Rostraver
  * Washington
  * Wheeling
  * Zelienople

  
  
Discontinued |

  * _Broadway Limited_
  * Brown Line
  * List of streetcar routes in Pittsburgh
  * _Parkway Limited_
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Tunnels and bridges in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Tunnels |

  * Allegheny River Tunnel
  * Armstrong Tunnel
  * Cork Run Tunnel
  * Corliss Tunnel
  * Fort Pitt Tunnel
  * J&L Tunnel
  * Liberty Tunnel
  * Mount Washington Transit Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh and Castle Shannon Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh & Steubenville Extension Railroad Tunnel
  * Schenley Tunnel
  * Squirrel Hill Tunnel
  * Wabash Tunnel

|  
  
Bridges |

  * 30th Street Bridge
  * 31st Street Bridge
  * 33rd Street Railroad Bridge
  * 40th Street Bridge
  * Bloomfield Bridge
  * Birmingham Bridge
  * David McCullough Bridge
  * Fort Duquesne Bridge
  * Fort Pitt Bridge
  * Fort Wayne Railroad Bridge
  * Glenwood Bridge
  * Glenwood B&O Railroad Bridge
  * Highland Park Bridge
  * Homestead Grays Bridge
  * Hot Metal Bridge
  * Liberty Bridge
  * McKees Rocks Bridge
  * Panhandle Bridge
  * Panther Hollow Bridge
  * Schenley Bridge
  * Senator Robert D. Fleming Bridge
  * Smithfield Street Bridge
  * South Tenth Street Bridge
  * Three Sisters
    * Roberto Clemente Bridge
    * Andy Warhol Bridge
    * Rachel Carson Bridge
  * Veterans Bridge
  * West End Bridge

  
  
|

Attractions  
  
---  
  
|

  * Aviary
  * Baywood
  * Cathedral of Learning
  * Chinatown
  * Conservatory
  * _Dippy_
  * Immaculate Heart
  * Duquesne Incline
  * Heinz Chapel
  * Little Italy
  * Mellon Institute
  * Mon Incline
  * Observatory
  * Pamela's
  * Penn Station
  * _Point of View_ sculpture
  * Primanti's
  * Science Center
  * Steps
  * USS _Requin_
  * Zoo
  * Kennywood
  * Luna Park
  * Westinghouse Sign

  
  
---  
Landmarks |

  * National (City)
  * National (County)
  * State
  * City
  * PHLF
  * Cultural

  
  
Museums |

  * Art
  * Arts
  * Arts Festival
  * Bible
  * Fort Pitt and Blockhouse
  * Clayton
  * Clemente
  * Children's
  * Frick
  * Glass Center
  * History
  * Jazz
  * Jewish
  * Mattress Factory
  * Dental
  * Miller
  * Miss Pittsburgh
  * Nationality Rooms
  * National Map
  * Natural History
  * Soldiers and Sailors
  * Warhol
  * Wilson
  * WSG

  
  
Venues |

  * Heinz Hall
  * Benedum
  * Byham
  * Harris
  * Kelly-Strayhorn
  * New Hazlett
  * O'Reilly
  * Foster
  * Playhouse
  * Trib
  * Hunt
  * Stage AE
  * Syria Mosque
  * Nixon Theater

  
  
Festivals |

  * Anthrocon
  * Arts
  * Blues
  * Comicon
  * Fashion
  * Film
  * Folk
  * Handmade
  * New Works
  * Tekko
  * Whiskey & Fine Spirits
  * Wine

  
  
|

Shopping and entertainment  
  
---  
  
  * Casino
  * Gateway Clipper Fleet
  * Station Square
  * Strip
  * Downtown
  * Oakland
  * South Side

  * Macy's
  * Market Square
  * Southside Works
  * Waterworks
  * Mount Washington
  * East Liberty
  * Squirrel Hill
  * Shadyside
  * Walnut Street

  * Opera
  * Ballet
  * Symphony
  * Brass
  * Classical Theatre
  * Dance
  * Ensemble
  * Caravan Theatre
  * Folk
  * Light Opera
  * Opera Theater
  * Jewish Theatre
  * Public Theater
  * Playwrights
  * Musical Theater
  * Stage Right
  * Youth Ballet
  * Youth Symphony
  * Bricolage
  * NNOC

|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Shopping malls in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Enclosed |

  * Beaver Valley Mall
  * The Block Northway
  * Century III Mall
  * The Galleria of Mt. Lebanon
  * The Mall at Robinson
  * Monroeville Mall
  * Pittsburgh Mills
  * Ross Park Mall
  * South Hills Village
  * Station Square
  * Uniontown Mall
  * Warner Centre
  * Washington Crown Center
  * Westmoreland Mall

  
  
Lifestyle /  
Outdoor |

  * Bakery Square
  * Edgewood Towne Centre
  * Ellsworth Avenue
  * McCandless Crossing
  * Northern Lights
  * Robinson Town Centre
  * Settlers Ridge
  * SouthSide Works
  * Walnut Street
  * The Waterfront
  * Waterworks Mall

  
  
Outlet |

  * Grove City Premium Outlets
  * Tanger Outlets Pittsburgh

  
  
Defunct |

  * Allegheny Center Mall
  * East Hills Shopping Center (Eastgate Commerce Center)
  * Eastland Mall
  * Greengate Mall
  * Parkway Center Mall
  * Village Square Mall
  * Washington Mall

  
  
|

Colleges and universities  
  
---  
  
  * Pitt
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Duquesne
  * Robert Morris
  * Chatham
  * Point Park
  * Carlow
  * Art Institute
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Saint Paul Seminary
  * CCAC

  
  
|

Culture of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * Cookie table
  * Jewish history
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Jagoff
  * Joe Magarac
  * _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_
  * Mr. Yuk
  * Parking chairs
  * Pittsburgh left
  * Pittsburgh toilet
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * Steeler Nation

  
  
  * **Book**
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Institutions of higher learning in the Pittsburgh metro area  
  
---  
  
  * Art Institute of Pittsburgh
  * Butler County Community College
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary of SS. Cyril and Methodius
  * California University of Pennsylvania
  * Carlow University
  * Carnegie Mellon University
  * Chatham University
  * Community College of Allegheny County
  * Community College of Beaver County
  * Duquesne University
  * Geneva College
  * Grove City College
  * Indiana University of Pennsylvania
  * La Roche College
  * Penn State Beaver
  * Penn State Fayette
  * Penn State Greater Allegheny
  * Penn State New Kensington
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Point Park University
  * Reformed Presbyterian Theological Seminary
  * Robert Morris University
  * Saint Vincent College
  * Seton Hill University
  * Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania
  * Trinity School for Ministry
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg
  * Washington & Jefferson College
  * Waynesburg University
  * Westminster College
  * Westmoreland County Community College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Private colleges and universities in Pennsylvania  
  
---  
Liberal arts  
colleges |

  * Albright
  * Allegheny
  * Bryn Mawr
  * Cedar Crest
  * Chatham
  * Dickinson
  * Elizabethtown
  * Franklin & Marshall
  * Geneva
  * Gettysburg
  * Grove City
  * Haverford
  * Juniata
  * King's
  * Lafayette
  * Lebanon Valley
  * Lycoming
  * Marywood
  * Mercyhurst
  * Messiah
  * Moravian
  * Muhlenberg
  * Saint Vincent
  * Susquehanna
  * Swarthmore
  * Ursinus
  * Washington & Jefferson
  * Waynesburg
  * Westminster
  * Wilson
  * York

  
  
Universities  
and colleges |

  * Alvernia
  * The American College
  * Arcadia
  * Art Institute of Philadelphia
  * Bucknell
  * Bryn Athyn
  * Cabrini
  * Cairn
  * Carlow
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Central Penn
  * Chestnut Hill
  * Clarks Summit University
  * Curtis Institute of Music
  * Delaware Valley
  * DeSales
  * Drexel
  * Duquesne
  * Eastern
  * Gannon
  * Gratz
  * Gwynedd Mercy
  * Harcum
  * Harrisburg University of Science and Technology
  * Holy Family
  * Hussian School of Art
  * Immaculata
  * Keystone
  * La Roche
  * La Salle
  * Lackawanna
  * Lancaster Bible
  * Lehigh
  * Manor
  * Marywood
  * Misericordia
  * Moore College of Art and Design
  * Mount Aloysius
  * Neumann
  * Peirce
  * Pennsylvania College of Art and Design
  * Philadelphia
  * Point Park
  * Robert Morris
  * Rosemont
  * St. Charles Borromeo Seminary
  * Saint Francis
  * Saint Joseph's
  * Salus
  * Seton Hill
  * Thiel
  * Thomas Jefferson
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * University of Scranton
  * University of the Arts
  * University of the Sciences in Philadelphia
  * University of Valley Forge
  * Villanova
  * Widener
  * Wilkes

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

University Athletic Association  
  
---  
  
  * Brandeis **Judges**
  * Carnegie Mellon **Tartans**
  * Case Western Reserve **Spartans**
  * Chicago **Maroons**
  * Emory **Eagles**
  * NYU **Violets**
  * Rochester **Yellowjackets**
  * Washington University **Bears**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Global Alliance of Technological Universities  
  
---  
  
  * California Institute of Technology
  * Carnegie Mellon University
  * ETH Zurich
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * Imperial College London
  * Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
  * Nanyang Technological University
  * Shanghai Jiao Tong University
  * Technical University of Munich
  * University of New South Wales

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 122715405
  * LCCN: n79054102
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 2097 0344
  * GND: 4252911-6
  * SUDOC: 026473291
  * BNF: cb11871541b (data)
  * NLA: 35025997
  * NDL: 00690161
  * NKC: ko2002162060

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carnegie_Mellon_University&oldid=814607940"

Categories:

  * Carnegie Mellon University
  * Educational institutions established in 1900
  * Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmarks
  * Universities and colleges in Pittsburgh
  * Technological universities in the United States
  * 1900 establishments in Pennsylvania

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from December 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * CS1 maint: Unfit url
  * Use mdy dates from November 2016
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Articles needing additional references from November 2016
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Кыргызча
  * مصرى
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 9 December 2017, at 21:17.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template

