

# Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

This article **does notcite any sources**.  Please help improve this article
by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged
and removed. _(May 2010)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
The **Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture** in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania is
a degree-granting institution founded in 1906 as one of five divisions of
Carnegie Mellon University's College of Fine Arts. It is widely regarded as
one of the best schools of architecture, and one of a shrinking number
offering the B.Arch accredited five-year professional degree. [ _citation
needed_ ] The School of Architecture's slogan is 'Where Art and Technology
Meet Practice', and the current head of the school is Stephen Lee. In 2015,
two School of Architecture professors, Stephen Lee and John Folan, were
recognized by Design Intelligence as members of the 30 Most Admired Educators.

## Contents

  * 1 Pedagogy
  * 2 Facilities
  * 3 Degrees Offered
  * 4 External links
  * 5 References

## Pedagogy[edit]

The School of Architecture defines architecture as the integrated pursuit of
design creativity, historical perspective, social responsibility, technical
expertise, and global environmental leadership. Reflecting a focus on
architectural excellence as the combination of rigorous fundamental practice
and unique specialization, the undergraduate curriculum consists of three
years of building studios and core requirements, followed by the student's
choice of an Advanced Synthesis Option Studio (ASOS) and numerous electives
from within the School of Architecture or the university at large.
Interdisciplinary studies are encouraged so that graduates of the B.Arch
program have both depth and breadth in their education, able to better respond
with innovative solutions to the emerging global challenges of the 21st
century.

## Facilities[edit]

The School of Architecture's facilities are located on the second floor of the
College of Fine Arts building and the second, third, and fourth floors of
Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall. These two buildings house Undergraduate and
Master studios, PhD, administrative, and faculty offices, and several
conference spaces as well as the Computational Design (CODE) Lab, a full Wood
& Metal Shop, a (Digital Fabrication Lab) dFAB Lab, and the Robert L. Preger
Intelligent Workplace, a sustainable "living laboratory" built atop Margaret
Morrison Carnegie Hall.

## Degrees Offered[edit]

The School of Architecture offers a five-year undergraduate degree, as well as
seven Master's programs and three Doctorate programs.

Undergraduate Degrees

  * Bachelor of Architecture (5-year professional degree program)
  * Bachelor of Arts in Architecture (4-year non-professional program)
  * Minor in Architecture
  * Minor in Architectural History
  * Minor in Architectural Representation and Visualization
  * Minor in Architectural Technology
  * Minor in Building Science

Graduate Degrees

  * Advanced Architectural Design (MAAD)
  * Master of Science in Architecture-Engineering-Construction Management (with Civil and Environmental Engineering) [MSAECM or PhD-AECM]
  * Master of Science in Computational Design [MSCD or PhD-CD]
  * Master of Science in Building Performance and Diagnostics [MSBPD or PhD-BPD]
  * Master of Science in Sustainable Design [MSSD]
  * Master of Tangible Interaction Design (with the School of Design) [MTID]
  * Master of Urban Design (with the Heinz College) [MUD]
  * Doctor of Philosophy in Architecture-Engineering-Construction Management
  * Doctor of Philosophy in Building Performance and Diagnostics
  * Doctor of Philosophy in Computational Design

There are also research opportunities available through the undergraduate and
graduate programs.

## External links[edit]

  * CMU School of Architecture
  * CMU College of Fine Arts
  * Computational Design (CODE) Lab
  * School of Architecture's dFAB Lab

## References[edit]

  * School of Architecture Quick Facts
  * School of Architecture Undergraduate Program
  * School of Architecture Facilities
  * School of Architecture Faculty & Staff

Coordinates: 40°26′35″N 79°57′04″W﻿ / ﻿40.44293°N 79.95102°W﻿ / 40.44293;
-79.95102

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carnegie_Mellon_School_of_Architecture&oldid=681784290"

Categories:

  * Architecture schools in Pennsylvania
  * Schools and departments of Carnegie Mellon
  * Educational institutions established in 1906
  * 1906 establishments in Pennsylvania

Hidden categories:

  * Articles lacking sources from May 2010
  * All articles lacking sources
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from February 2007
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 19 September 2015, at 14:14.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

