

# Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts

College of Fine Arts, Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Type | Fine art  
Established | 1900  
Location | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States  
Language | English  
Website | cfa.cmu.edu  
  
The **College of Fine Arts** at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh, in
the U.S. state of Pennsylvania oversees the Schools of Architecture, Art,
Design, Drama, and Music; along with its associated centers, studios, and
galleries.

The College of Fine Arts (CFA) has its roots in 1900, when the institution was
first founded as Carnegie Technical Schools. The School of Fine and Applied
Arts was one of the original four schools within Carnegie Technical Schools
and later became the College of Fine Arts. Officially founded in 1905 as the
first comprehensive arts learning institution in the United States, CFA has
educated outstanding artists, architects, designers, theater artists and
musicians who have made important contributions to culture in the United
States and the world for almost a century.

Architecture students in the CFA building.

The College of Fine Arts concentrates on the education of professionals in the
arts in the broader context of Carnegie Mellon University. Beyond their
education in their chosen field, through required and elective course work,
students are involved with other disciplines within CFA and within the other
colleges of the University. Further, the college’s location in the Oakland
District of Pittsburgh with its unique density of cultural resources (The
Carnegie Museum of Art, The Carnegie Museum of Natural History, The Carnegie
Library, the University of Pittsburgh, Hillman Library, the Frick Fine Arts
Building, and Phipps Botanical Conservatory,) places CFA at the center of a
premier cultural environment.

CFA alumni have shaped the television, stage and film worlds; have created
work collected in international museums; have composed for and are performing
and conducting in major symphony orchestras, choruses and opera companies;
have built notable buildings, designed building systems and architectural
imaging systems; created significant innovations in graphic and industrial
design; and are professors and deans in major arts institutions. These
graduates have actively developed the innovations, inventions, techniques and
information structures in their professional fields. They have also written,
published and lectured extensively.

The educational and artistic life of the college is interwoven with a dense
calendar of theatre performances, concert, exhibitions, film and media
presentations and lectures by visiting artists, practitioners and scholars.

Notable alumni include Gabriel Macht, Christian Borle, Jonathan Borofsky,
Philip Pearlstein, Steven Bochco, James Cromwell, Holly Hunter, Rob Marshall,
Ricky Ian Gordon, Stephen Schwartz, Zachary Quinto, Ryan McGinness, Judith
Light, Patrick Wilson, Ted Danson, Keith Lockhart, Matt Bomer, Josh Groban,
Josh Gad, Michael Tucker and Blair Underwood.

## See also[edit]

  * Carnegie Mellon School of Design
  * Carnegie Mellon School of Drama
  * Carnegie Mellon School of Architecture
  * Carnegie Mellon School of Music
  * Carnegie Mellon School of Art

## References[edit]

  * Fenton, Edwin (2000). _Carnegie Mellon 1900-2000: A Centennial History_. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press. ISBN 0-88748-323-2.  

  * Pittsburgh portal

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**College of Fine Arts, Carnegie
Mellon University**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website

Coordinates:  40°26′40″N 79°56′35″W﻿ / ﻿40.44453°N 79.94305°W﻿ / 40.44453;
-79.94305

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Carnegie_Mellon_College_of_Fine_Arts&oldid=806864568"

Categories:

  * Schools and departments of Carnegie Mellon
  * Art schools in Pennsylvania
  * Educational institutions established in 1900
  * Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmarks

Hidden categories:

  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 24 October 2017, at 16:42.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

