

# Cathedral of Learning

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search  
  
---  
  
Cathedral of Learning  
  
U.S. National Register of Historic Places  
  
U.S. Historic district  
Contributing property  
  
City of Pittsburgh Historic Structure  
  
Pittsburgh Landmark — PHLF  
  
The Cathedral of Learning at the University of Pittsburgh  
  
Show map of Pittsburgh

Show map of Pennsylvania

Show map of the US  
  
Location | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA  
Coordinates | 40°26′39″N 79°57′11″W﻿ / ﻿40.44417°N 79.95306°W﻿ / 40.44417;
-79.95306Coordinates: 40°26′39″N 79°57′11″W﻿ / ﻿40.44417°N 79.95306°W﻿ /
40.44417; -79.95306  
Built | 1926  
Architect | Charles Klauder  
Architectural style | Late Gothic Revival with some Art Deco influences  
Part of | Schenley Farms Historic District (#83002213)  
NRHP reference # | 75001608[1]  
Significant dates  
Added to NRHP | November 3, 1975[1]  
Designated CP | July 22, 1983[1]  
Designated CPHS | February 22, 1977[2]  
Designated PHLF | 1970: Croghan-Schenley Ballroom[3]  
1972: Cathedral of Learning interiors[4]  
1973: Cathedral of Learning[5]  
  
The **Cathedral of Learning** , a Pittsburgh landmark[2][6] listed in the
National Register of Historic Places,[7][8] is the centerpiece of the
University of Pittsburgh's main campus in the Oakland neighborhood of
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States. Standing at 535 feet (163 m),[9] the
42-story Late Gothic Revival Cathedral is the tallest educational building in
the Western hemisphere and the second tallest university building (fourth
tallest educationally-purposed building) in the world.[10] It is also the
second tallest gothic-styled building in the world.[11] The Cathedral of
Learning was commissioned in 1921 and ground was broken in 1926. The first
class was held in the building in 1931 and its exterior finished in October
1934,[12] prior to its formal dedication in June 1937.

Colloquially referred to as "Cathy" by some Pitt students,[13][14] the
Cathedral of Learning is a steel frame structure overlaid with Indiana
limestone and contains more than 2,000 rooms and windows. It functions as a
primary classroom and administrative center of the university, and is, home to
the Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences and many of its departments, as well
as the University Honors College. It houses many specialty spaces, including a
studio theater, food court, study lounges, offices, computer and language
labs, 30 Nationality Rooms, and a 1⁄2-acre (2,000 m2), 4-story-high, vaulted,
gothic study and event hall. The building contains noted examples of stained
glass, stone, wood, and iron work and is often used by the university in
photographs, postcards, and other advertisements.

## Contents

  * 1 Use
  * 2 History
    * 2.1 World War II
  * 3 Funding
  * 4 Commons Room
  * 5 Nationality Rooms
    * 5.1 Classrooms
    * 5.2 Proposed rooms
  * 6 Other notable spaces
    * 6.1 Babcock Room
    * 6.2 Braun Room
    * 6.3 Croghan-Schenley Ballroom
    * 6.4 Frick Auditorium
    * 6.5 Humanities Center
    * 6.6 Cultural Studies, Film Studies, and GSWS program space
    * 6.7 Mulert Memorial Room
    * 6.8 Rauh Studio Theatre
    * 6.9 University Honors College
  * 7 Recent proposed changes to the Cathedral
  * 8 References in popular culture and student life
  * 9 See also
  * 10 Notes
  * 11 References
  * 12 Further reading
  * 13 External links

## Use[edit]

The Cathedral of Learning

The basement and floors up to (and including) floor 40 are used for
educational purposes, although most floors above 36 house the building's
mechanical equipment. These floors include theaters, computer laboratories,
language laboratories, classrooms, and departmental offices. The basement
contains a black box theater and the ground floor contains computer labs,
language labs, classrooms, and the Cathedral Café food court.[15][16] The
"lobby", comprising the first through third floors, contains a massive gothic
"Commons Room" that is used as a general study area and for special events and
is ringed by three floors of classrooms, including, on the first and third
floors, the 30 Nationality Rooms designed by members of Pittsburgh's ethnic
communities in the styles of different nations and ethnic groups. Twenty-eight
of these serve as functional classrooms while more conventional classrooms are
located on the second floor and elsewhere throughout the building. The first
floor also serves as the home to the offices of the Chancellor, Executive Vice
Chancellor, and other administration offices, as well as the Nationality Rooms
Gift Shop. The fourth floor, which was previously home to the main stacks of
the university's library and the McCarl Center for Nontraditional Student
Success,[17] now houses a mix of interdisciplinary studies programs. The fifth
floor originally housed the main borrowing, reference, and reading rooms of
the university library, and now houses the Department of English. The Pitt
Humanities Center is housed on the sixth floor. Additionally, the University
Honors College is located on the 35th and 36th floors.

The Cathedral of Learning houses the Department of Philosophy,[18] considered
one of the top five in the United States,[19] and the Department of History
and Philosophy of Science,[20] consistently ranked at the top of the
field.[21][22][23] Other departments in the Cathedral include English,
Religious Studies, Statistics, Theatre Arts, and the School of Social Work
which maintains the highest classrooms in the building located on the 23rd
floor.[24][note 1] Floors 37–40 are closed to the general public, as they
contain electrical wiring for the building, as well as the Babcock Room, a
large conference room on the 40th floor used for meetings, seminars, and
special events and which provides a panoramic view of downtown Pittsburgh and
the rest of the university. The 40th floor balcony also houses a nesting pair
of Peregrine falcons. A view from the top is available via a webcam.[25]
Golden lights, dubbed "victory lights," surround the outside of the highest
floors and are lit following Pitt football wins and other notable victories,
giving the upper part of the Cathedral an amber glow.[26]

The top of the building serves as the site for the transmitter of the student-
run radio station WPTS-FM[27] as well as the amateur radio repeater W3YJ which
is run by the Panther Amateur Radio club on a frequency of 443.45 MHz.[28][29]

The building is also one of the host buildings of Pennsylvania's Mock Trial
Competition.

## History[edit]

In 1921, John Gabbert Bowman became the tenth chancellor of the university. At
that time, the school consisted of a series of buildings constructed along
Henry Hornbostel's plan for the campus and included "temporary" wooden
structures built during World War I. He then began to envision a "tall
building", that would be later termed the Cathedral of Learning, to provide a
dramatic symbol of education for the city and alleviate overcrowding by adding
much needed space in order to meet present and future needs of the university.

His reasoning is summarized in this quote:

> The building was to be more than a schoolhouse; it was to be a symbol of the
life that Pittsburgh through the years had wanted to live. It was to make
visible something of the spirit that was in the hearts of pioneers as, long
ago, they sat in their log cabins and thought by candlelight of the great city
that would sometime spread out beyond their three rivers and that even they
were starting to build.

Bowman looked at a 14-acre (5.7 ha) plot of land named Frick Acres. On
November 26, 1921, with aid from the Mellon family, the university was given
the $2.5 million plot, and began plans for a proper university building on the
site.[30]

One of the foremost Gothic architects of the time, Philadelphian Charles
Klauder, was hired to design the tower. The design took two years to finish,
with the final plan attempting to fuse the idea of a modern skyscraper with
the tradition and ideals of Gothic architecture. The plans received strong
resistance from the community and from some university officials, who felt it
was too tall for the city.

Fountain outside of the Cathedral

Local legend states that to counteract this resistance, Bowman ordered that
the construction of the walls would start at the top floor and work its way
down, so the project could not be canceled. This has been traced to an account
in November 21, 1943, issue of _At Ease_ , a tabloid related to local military
personnel on campus, which stated that "the masonry was started from the top
downward." Construction photographs show that this was not the case, and that
some stonework was done on the first floor before any other stonework was
begun. One engineer with the company working on the Cathedral[ _who?_ ]
explained that the exterior walls of the Cathedral are not load-bearing.
Because of this, many similar buildings would start construction at the third
or fourth floors. Practically, this makes sense, as it allows easy movement of
building materials and equipment into and out of the building. Instead, in the
Cathedral's case, the issue was one of the stone that would be used in lower
stories. In fact, the quarry was not prepared to deliver the stone on
schedule, so construction was delayed, and work began on the higher stories.

... "in the literal sense of the word, Late Gothic Revival architecture
culminated in the University of Pittsburgh's skyscraping Cathedral of
Learning".

Marcus Whiffen, architecture historian[31]

When construction started on the Cathedral of Learning in 1926, it was the
tallest building in Pittsburgh, although the Gulf Tower (1932) was completed
and surpassed it by the time the Cathedral of Learning was officially
dedicated in June 1937. Today, it remains the tallest educational building in
the Western hemisphere, the second tallest university building in the world
behind the 36 story, 240 m (including a 57 m spire) Moscow State University
main building completed in 1953,[10] and the fourth tallest educational
building in the world behind the Moscow State University and Mode Gakuen
Cocoon (204 m)[32] and Spiral Towers (170 m),[33] both completed in 2008 and
located in Japan.

### World War II[edit]

On July 26, 1940, as World War II was starting, a bomb threat was made against
the structure with extra guards being posted to secure it and the authorities
not ruling out possible wartime sabotage.[34]

During the war effort, the Cathedral was assigned to house, feed and instruct
roughly 1,000 of the Army Air Corps (forerunner of today's U.S. Air Force) as
well as dozens of Army engineers. The building had at least 12 floors
dedicated for military use from 1943 until 1945.[35]

## Funding[edit]

Fundraising for this project came in many forms, including donations from
industries, corporations, individuals and foreign governments. To raise public
views of the Cathedral, and at the same time finance the construction, Bowman
started a fundraising campaign in 1925.

An important part of this campaign was a project reaching out to the children
of the city entitled "Buy a Brick for Pitt". Each schoolchild sent a dime
($0.10) and a letter to the university, explaining how they earned the dime
for the building. In exchange, the child received a certificate for one brick
contained in the Cathedral. A total of 97,000 certificates were issued to
children.

## Commons Room[edit]

Commons Room

The main part of the Cathedral's first floor is the Commons Room, called one
of the "great architectural fantasies of the twentieth century", is a
fifteenth-century English perpendicular Gothic-style hall that covers half an
acre (2,000 m2) and extends upwards four stories, reaching 52 feet (16 m)
tall.[36] The room was a gift of Andrew Mellon. It is a piece of true Gothic
architecture; no steel supports were used in the construction of its arches.
Each arch is a true arch, and they support their own weight. Each base for the
arches weighs five tons, and it is said that they are so firmly placed that
each could hold a large truck. The large central piers act only as screens for
the structural steel that holds up the upper floors of the building.

Despite its heavy use, the Commons Room is kept quiet by the use of Guastavino
acoustical tiles as the stones between the ribs of vaulting.[36] This feature
was insisted upon by Chancellor Bowman. The architect, Klauder, objected due
to the increased costs of this construction method. Bowman responded with the
comment: "You cannot build a great University with fraud in it."[ _citation
needed_ ]

Joseph Gattoni designed the stonework, much of which depicts western
Pennsylvanian plant life. The walls are made of Indiana limestone and the
floor is green Vermont slate.

The wrought iron in the room, including the large gates leading to the
elevators, was a gift from George Hubbard Clapp and were designed by the
ironworker Samuel Yellin. Over the gates are two lines from an untitled poem
by Robert Bridges:

> "Here is eternal spring; for you the very stars of heaven are new."[37]

Also located in the corridors surrounding the Commons Room are plaques
featuring calligraphy designed and hand-cut in slate by Edward Catich,
including one featuring a poem by Lawrence Lee titled "The Cathedral,"[38] as
well as stained glass windows by Charles Connick.[39]

During finals in the winter, fires in the enormous fireplace are lit, to
promote a comforting and pleasant atmosphere for the dozens of students
typically found studying into the late hours.

## Nationality Rooms[edit]

Main article: Nationality Rooms

The Austrian Classroom, one of 30 Nationality Rooms in the Cathedral of
Learning.

The Chinese Classroom

The Cathedral is home to 30 Nationality Rooms located on the first and third
floors: 28 working classrooms and two rooms used mostly for display or
occasional special events. Each nationality room is designed to celebrate a
different culture that had an influence on Pittsburgh's growth, depicting an
era prior to (or in the singular case of the French Classroom, just after)
1787, which is year of the university's founding and the signing of the US
Constitution.

The Nationality Room programs began in 1926 when Bowman decided that he wanted
to involve the community as much as he could in constructing the Cathedral, so
he proposed that each nationality that had a significant number of people in
Pittsburgh would be allowed to design their nationality's room for the
Cathedral. Each group had to form a Room Committee, which would be responsible
for all fundraising, designing, and acquisition. The university provided only
the room and, upon completion, upkeep for perpetuity. All other materials,
labor, and design were provided by the individual committees. These were
sometimes aided by foreign governments and the rooms contain many authentic
artifacts and materials from the country represented.[40] A typical room on
the 1st floor (those built between 1938 and the 1957) took between three and
ten years to complete, and cost the equivalent of US$300,000 in 2006 dollars.
More recent rooms have cost in the range of $750,000 and up.[41]

### Classrooms[edit]

  * African Heritage
  * Armenian
  * Austrian
  * Chinese
  * Czechoslovak
  * Early American (Display)

|   |

  * English
  * French
  * German
  * Greek
  * Hungarian
  * Indian

|   |

  * Irish
  * Israel Heritage
  * Italian
  * Japanese
  * Lithuanian
  * Korean

|   |

  * Norwegian
  * Polish
  * Romanian
  * Russian
  * Scottish
  * Swedish

|   |

  * Swiss
  * Syrian-Lebanon (Display)
  * Turkish
  * Ukrainian
  * Welsh
  * Yugoslav

  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
### Proposed rooms[edit]

There are seven nationality rooms in various stages of planning to add to the
current 30.[42]

  * Danish[43]
  * Filipino[44]
  * Finnish[45]
  * Iranian[46]

|   |

  * Latin American & Caribbean[47]
  * Moroccan[48]
  * Thai[49]

  
---|---|---  
  
## Other notable spaces[edit]

Dedication panel of the Babcock Memorial Room

There are several other notable facilities and rooms within the Cathedral of
Learning. In addition, these spaces do not fall under the auspices of the
Nationality Rooms program.

### Babcock Room[edit]

The Edward V. Babcock Memorial Room is a plush, carpeted, wood-paneled
conference room constructed on the 40th floor for use as the University
trustees' boardroom. Funded by a Babcock family grant of $327,000 ($2.71
million in 2016 dollars[50]) and dedicated in November 1958,[41] all of the
room’s features are original, except for the lighting, furniture and
carpeting.[51] The room's square shape is modified by four alcoves, in one of
which is a portrait of Babcock by Malcolm Stevens Parcell. The walls,
featuring intricate geometric patterns, are paneled in Appalachian white oak
with burled walnut inlays and touches of rosewood.[52] The windows, adorned by
leaf-patterned curtains, boast a spectacular panoramic view of the surrounding
area.[51][53] The room is also adjoined by a kitchen.[54] Access to the room
is limited to a spiral staircase and an elevator, both requiring a key, that
originate on the 36th floor.[54] During the early 1970s at the height of
student activism, a group of protesting students attempted to barricade the
room during a trustees meeting.[41][55] Today, the trustees have outgrown the
room and generally meet in the Assembly Room of the William Pitt Union. The
Babcock room now serves as a seminar and meeting room and is also used for
special events.[51] A pair of peregrine falcons nests on the balcony outside
the room.[56]

### Braun Room[edit]

The Braun Room in the Cathedral of Learning.

Following the opening of the Cathedral of Learning, the offices of the Dean of
Women moved to the 12th floor of the Cathedral in 1938. The interior was
unfinished but Dean Thyrsa Amos envisioned a dignified and beautiful space for
women to meet.

When Dean Amos died in 1941, the new quarters were still unfinished. The
Alumnae Association created the Thyrsa W. Amos Fund to plaster the walls and
to furnish Room 1217 in her name. Room 1217 was never finished, but after
World War II the other rooms on the twelfth floor were completed including
room 1201, now known as the Braun Room. Mrs. A. E. Braun donated the
furnishings and floral carved mahogany wood paneling which she had purchased
in 1941 from the library of the home of Grant McCargo in the East End of
Pittsburgh. The Braun Room was dedicated in 1946 and serves, along with its
furniture, as an example of a modern reproduction of Louis XV design. Original
blue carpeting was replaced in 1955 with a Persian rug, named "The Iron Rug of
Persia", that was donated by the daughter and son-in-law of A. E. Braun.
Restored in 2015, the rug was made for a regional Khan in the northern part of
Iran around 1810.[57] Other features of the room include a low bookcase,
bordered and topped with classic carving, that was crafted by university
carpenters to replace the original fireplace whose inclusion was impractical
on the 12th floor, along with two crystal drop chandeliers.[58]

Dean Helen Pool Rush and her successor, Dean Savina Skewis, carried on the
traditions of Dean Amos until the Dean of Women's Office was closed in 1969,
and its functions and quarters were assumed by other departments.[59] The
Braun Room is used for meetings and study abroad scholarship selection panels.

### Croghan-Schenley Ballroom[edit]

Croghan-Schenley Ballroom in the Cathedral of Learning.

The Croghan-Schenley room, situated on the first floor of the Cathedral in
room 156, is actually two adjoining Greek Revival rooms, the Ballroom and the
Oval Room, connected by a hidden passageway in the Ballroom's fireplace. The
rooms were originally part of William Croghan Jr.'s mansion, known as the
Picnic House, built in 1830 in the Stanton Heights area of Pittsburgh. The
rooms themselves were created in 1835 by the Philadelphia carver Mordecai Van
Horn, and they have been regarded as being among the most lavish examples of
Greek Revival designs in America.[36]

His daughter, Mary Elizabeth, went to boarding school in New York, but in 1842
at the age of fifteen she eloped with 43-year-old Edward Wyndham Harrington
Schenley, a captain in the British military. The elopement caused a family
schism. Mary would not visit often, and in an effort to convince her to move
back to Pittsburgh, the new rooms were commissioned. Following the death of
William Croghan in 1850, the mansion was run by caretakers with no permanent
residents for some 60 years. William S. Miller, then president of Steelwood
Corp., purchased the Croghan mansion following World War II and it was soon
leveled for a new housing development, but the Croghan-Schenley rooms were
spared.[60]

In 1955, the rooms, donated by Miller, were dismantled and rebuilt in the
Cathedral, except that the original ceilings had to be lowered about 8 inches
to accommodate the available space.

In 1982, the rooms were refurbished to their 19th century glory. Highlighting
the ballroom are the hand-cut glass chandelier and four wooden, hand-carved
Greek columns, surviving examples of western Pennsylvania’s Greek classical
revival period popular with those of means in the 1830s.

The Croghan-Schenley rooms are the last extant vestiges of the estate of Mary
Schenley, who before she died gave much of her holdings and property to the
city of Pittsburgh—including Schenley farms, where the Cathedral sits, and
Schenley Park.[61]

The Frick Auditorium

Stories tell of a ghost, speculated to be that of Mary Schenley, that is said
to roam the Ballroom and Nationality Rooms. The doors to the rooms are locked
every night, but furniture is sometimes said to be found rearranged by
daylight staff. The swinging of the chandelier has been said to indicate her
presence.[62][63][64]

### Frick Auditorium[edit]

The Frick Auditorium is a lecture hall in room 324 of the Cathedral of
Learning. Originally conceptualized as the Fine Arts Lecture Room intended to
complement the Fine Arts Department then located on the seventh floor,[65] the
room was completed in 1939[66] and features stone mullions, chambranle, and
other trim as well as wooden lecture seating and a coffered ceiling. A
centerpiece element in the room is a Nicholas Lochoff reproduction of _The
Resurrection_ by Piero della Francesca that was purchased for the lecture hall
by Helen Clay Frick. Frick would later donate a large collection of Lochoff
reproductions to the university which are on display in the Nicholas Lochoff
Cloisture in the university's Frick Fine Arts Building.[67]

###  Humanities Center[edit]

Entrance to the Humanities Center

The University of Pittsburgh's Humanities Center, part of School of Arts and
Sciences, is housed in room 602 of the Cathedral of Learning which was a
sixth-floor space formerly occupied by the Darlington Memorial Library.
Following digitization and protective storage of the library's materials, its
space was renovated by architect Rob Pfaffmann in 2009 in order to house the
center which now includes office space for staff and visiting fellows.[68] The
Humanities Center space retains much of the original character and many of the
antique furnishings originally bequeathed to the university by the Darlington
family, and features moldings and green walls that are duplicated from the
18th mansion Graeme Park, a Pennsylvania colonial-era governor’s
residence.[69] The Center for Humanities was finished in time for an open
house that was part a conference hosted by the center on November 14–15,
2009.[70]

Humanities Center

The space served as the home of The Darlington Memorial Library from 1936
until its recent conversion to the Humanities Center.[71] The library was
entered through a memorial vestibule and consisted of a central room with
eight alcoves and contained, among other notable furnishings, a wrought iron
entrance gate by Samuel Yellin.[69] The library had been given to the
University of Pittsburgh by the daughters of William McCullough Darlington and
Mary Carson Darlington. The initial gift of eleven thousand volumes was made
in 1918 by Mary O'Hara Darlington and Edith Darlington Ammon. This was
followed by Mary O'Hara Darlington's bequest in 1925 of the remainder of the
family's library and a large part of the family estate. The Darlington
family's tremendous interest in historical research was the force behind the
creation of what was said to be the largest private library west of the
Alleghenies. The library collection is particularly rich in material
pertaining to the French and Indian War and to the history of Western
Pennsylvania and the Ohio Valley as both William and Mary Darlington
researched and published in these areas. While the main focus of the
collection is American history and literature, other highlights of the
collection include rare maps and atlases, works on ornithology and natural
history, and early travel narratives. The Darlington's son, O'Hara Darlington,
also amassed a collections of Victorian literature, sporting books and works
of illustrators and caricaturists. The collection has been additionally
enriched over the years by the donations of other individuals and
organizations, particularly enhancing its content on the history of the
Western Pennsylvania region.[72] Prior to the renovation of the original
library space, these materials were digitized and placed on-line at The
Darlington Digital Library.[73] The original, sometimes fragile, materials of
the library were placed in storage for availability to researchers upon
request.[74] A virtual tour of the Darlington Memorial Library as it existed
previously in the Cathedral of Learning is available for the main entrance[75]
and the main room.[76]

### Cultural Studies, Film Studies, and GSWS program space[edit]

Former McCarl Center

Located on the fourth floor of the Cathedral of Learning, the current home of
both the Cultural Studies, Film Studies, and Gender, Sexuality, & Women's
Studies (GSWS) programs,[77] was the prior home of the McCarl Center for
Nontraditional Student Success until it moved to Wesley W. Posvar Hall in
2014.[78] The space occupies what once housed two levels of the main stacks of
the University's library.[79] The 2,500-square-foot (230 m2) space was
previously opened as the $537,000 McCarl Center in 2002.[80] Made possible by
a gift from F. James and Foster J.J. McCarl,[80] it was designed by Alan J.
Cuteri and his architectural firm Strada, LLC, and includes wood finishes,
double-height spaces with high ceilings and windows, a main corridor conceived
as an interior street, and many elements that refer to the Cathedral of
Learning's Gothic architecture including decorative painted metal columns with
contemporary buttress-style arches.[17] Today the space includes a resource
library, offices, and seminar room, and class room that are used by the
Cultural Studies and GSWS programs.[77] Students in gender studies classes
have access to the gender studies library, which houses classic and recent
books on gender/sexuality, and to two gender studies classrooms. The GSWS
faculty offices are also nearby. Also hanging in a hallway on the fourth floor
outside the space, three unsigned and undated 7-by-3-foot (2.1 by 0.9 m)
glass-encased murals that depict Renaissance painting styles and which have
long belonged to the University but are of unknown origin.[81]

### Mulert Memorial Room[edit]

Mulert Memorial Room

Located in room 204, the walnut-paneled Mulert Memorial classroom was designed
by Philadelphia architect Gustav Ketterer and university architect Albert
Klimcheck.[82] The room features wood floors, fluted ionic columns, red velvet
draperies, and student chairs with leather seats.[83] The room's doors have
fluted jams and panelings of Greek rosettes. A Mulert family coat-of-arms and
memorial inscription is located on the rear wall of the room.[84] The room was
provided for in the will of the late Mt. Lebanon resident Justus Mulert, the
room was dedicated on December 21, 1942, and serves as a memorial to Mulert's
wife, Louise and his son Ferdinand Max, who died in 1912 during his senior
year at Washington and Jefferson College.[85]

### Rauh Studio Theatre[edit]

Studio Theatre

The Richard E. Raugh Studio Theatre, a facility utilized by the Department of
Theatre Arts, is located in the basement of the Cathedral. The Raugh Studio
Theatre is a black box space that can be configured for almost any set
requirements. It is home to student-directed laboratory productions, play
readings, Dark Night Cabaret, and played host to Pittsburgh's longest-running
theatre show, Friday Nite Improvs, started in 1989 by graduate theatre
students.[86] In 2017 the Studio Theatre was named in honor of Pitt alumnus
Richard E. Raugh who donated $1 million to support it and the university's
theater productions.[87]

### University Honors College[edit]

The University Honors College, dedicated in 1986, is housed in a 2002-2003
renovated space on the 35th and 36th floors of the Cathedral. The Honors
College provides support and enriched opportunities for scholarship among the
university's undergraduates and offers a Bachelor of Philosophy (BPhil)
degree.[88]

The 2002-2003 renovation, by Rothschild Doyno Collaborative of Pittsburgh's
Strip District, showcased an existing two-story arched window that is visible
at night for miles around. The four-leaf medieval quatrefoil medallion at the
top of the Cathedral is a central motif in the design of the Honors College.
Stained glass behind the reception desk at the center of the space was
designed by Glenn Greene Glass of Regent Square and centers on a design
representing the four seasons, done in polished agate. Wrought ironwork was
produced by Vic Reynaud of Technique Manufacturing in the spirit of Samuel
Yellin who did the Commons Room ironwork.[89]

  * South face of the Cathedral from the Frick Fine Arts Building

  * The Cathedral Lawn to the east

  * Cathedral and the Stephen Foster Memorial from across Schenley Plaza

  * Northwest side of the Cathedral from across the lawn of the Sailors and Soldiers Memorial

  * Detail of top floors on the western face

  * North face top floors

  * Panther fountain on the west entrance

  * East side

  * View from the South Side Slopes

  * Samuel Yellin ironwork lamp

  * South entrance detail

  * Exterior quatrefoil stonework detail prior to 2007 cleaning

  * Charles Connick designed Class of 1940 Window in the Quo Vadis niche

  * Lightwell containing the painted ceramic sculpture "Third Century" by Jerry Caplan

  * Detail of Joseph Gattoni stonework on a first floor archway

  * Detail of Commons Room furniture carvings

  * Commons Room ceiling vaults

  * Commons Room

  * Commons Room

  * Looking west from the Honors College

  * Cathedral of Learning lit up with the victory lights

## Recent proposed changes to the Cathedral[edit]

University Honors College on the 35th and 36th floor

In the early 2000s, there was some controversy over whether university funds
should be used to illuminate the Cathedral at night, or to clean the
building's façade. The cleaning was abandoned because it was too costly. Some
Oakland residents spoke out against the cleaning, stating that the years of
soot should stay as an homage to Pittsburgh's industrial past. However, the
university approved nearly $5 million for cleaning and restoration of
stonework on February 28, 2007. The work was completed at the end of 2007,
restoring the exterior of the building to its original condition.

In the wake of the September 11 attacks, the Cathedral was deemed "at risk"
because no obstacles were in place to prevent a vehicle from driving into the
entrances of the building. To address this concern, the university installed
bollards that rise out of the sidewalk.[90]

As of 2001[update], around 200 window air conditioners operated in the
building. During the 2000s, the university focused upon providing air-
conditioning to the first four floors, which contain many classrooms. The plan
called for the complete central cooling of the entire Cathedral of Learning by
the end of the decade.[91]

In 2014 the Property and Facilities Committee approved a plan for a $10.4
million upgrade of the building's elevator system.[92] This is the second
major upgrade of the elevators to have been implemented throughout the
building's history. Originally manually controlled and later automated to
Westinghouse Selectomatic in 1971, the system was completely modernized into
Otis Compass destination dispatch in 2016.

## References in popular culture and student life[edit]

The Cathedral of Learning lit up during the fall of 2008 for the Pittsburgh
Festival of Light in celebration of the city of Pittsburgh's 250th
anniversary. The mosaic, created by French artist Lucette de Rugy, was
inspired by Gutenberg's 15th-century printing press

_One A Day: 365 Views of the Cathedral of Learning_ , painted by Felix de la
Concha, a permanent exhibit at the University of Pittsburgh's Alumni Hall

  * A Lego Ideas project of the Cathedral of Learning is awaiting 10,000 votes to be considered as an official Lego set.[93]
  * In Gwyn Cready's comedic romance novel _Tumbling Through Time_ , the hero, Magnus Knightley, is a visiting professor whose office is on the 32nd floor of the Cathedral of Learning. Several scenes in the book take place in the Cathedral.
  * The Cathedral of Learning is described in Michael Chabon's novel _The Mysteries of Pittsburgh_.
  * In Bethesda Softwork's _Fallout 3: The Pitt_ , the Cathedral of Learning appears as the headquarters of the rulers of a post-apocalyptic Pittsburgh.[94]
  * The Cathedral of Learning was profiled on _John Ratzenberger's Made in America_ TV show on the Travel Channel.[95]
  * The Cathedral of Learning and Nationality Rooms were featured on the Canadian French language travel channel Évasion in the Pittsburgh episode of _15 bonnes raisons d’aller à ..._ that first aired in September 2012.[96][97]
  * The Cathedral is sometimes referred to by Pitt students as the "drunken compass" due to its prominence of visibility throughout the neighborhood of Oakland that is used to guide students returning from parties back to the dorms or apartments.[98]
  * Along with the Early American Nationality Room, and the Croghan-Schenley Ballroom, the Cathedral Café food court on the ground level is purported to be haunted.[63][98]
  * Portions of the movie _Roommates_ (1995), starring D. B. Sweeney, Peter Falk and Julianne Moore and directed by Peter Yates, were filmed in the Cathedral of Learning, including room 324.[99]
  * Richard Gere's character in _The Mothman Prophecies_ (2002) appears in a scene where he is sitting on a bench on the Cathedral of Learning lawn.[99]
  * The Cathedral of Learning can be seen in the background of the climatic scene where Jackie Robinson heads for home base at Forbes Field in the biographical film _42_ (2013),[100] as well as in the backdrop of the graduation scene, filmed on the lawn of Soldiers and Sailors Memorial, for fictional Rosman University in the movie _Sorority Row_ (2009).[101] It can also be seen in the movie _Wonder Boys_ (2000), a film adaptation of Pitt alumnus Michael Chabon's novel of the same title,[99] as well as in the original 1951 version of Angels in the Outfield.[102]
  * Artist Harry Scheuch painted the Cathedral of Learning during its construction in the 1930s as a series for the Public Works of Art Project. The works are now part of the Smithsonian American Art Museum's exhibit entitled "1934: A New Deal for Artists".[103]
  * Artist Felix de la Concha painted the Cathedral of Learning 365 times, in _One a Day. 365 Views of the Cathedral of Learning_. The collection is now on display at the Alumni Hall (University of Pittsburgh), a building just in front of the Cathedral.[104][105]
  * In one of the most famous photographs in baseball history by George Silk and published in _Life_ magazine, students from the University of Pittsburgh are seen cheering on the Pittsburgh Pirates in the 1960 World Series from their vantage atop the Cathedral of Learning high above Forbes Field.[106][107]
  * Assumption University in Thailand has constructed a 39-story, 522-foot (159 m) building that is modeled and named after the Cathedral of Learning and serves as the centerpiece of their Suvarnabhumi campus.[108]
  * The Cathedral of Learning features in Chris Kuzneski's 2009 novel, _The Prophecy_.

##  See also[edit]

  * PITT portal
  * Pittsburgh portal

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** Although there are no classrooms higher than the 23rd floor, classes occasionally meet in rooms on higher floors, either temporarily due to unavoidable circumstances (e.g., if a normal classroom is temporarily unavailable) or permanently by a consensus of the students and instructor (if a class is small enough to meet in a professor's personal office or a student lounge).

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ National Park Service (2010-07-09). "National Register Information System". _National Register of Historic Places_. National Park Service.  
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation: Local Historic Designations". May 1, 2002. Retrieved  February 25, 2008. 
  3. **^** "Historic Landmark Plaques 1968-2009" (PDF). Pittsburgh, PA: Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation. 2010: 3. Retrieved June 25, 2010. 
  4. **^** "Historic Landmark Plaques 1968-2009" (PDF). Pittsburgh, PA: Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation. 2010: 5. Retrieved June 25, 2010. 
  5. **^** "Historic Landmark Plaques 1968-2009" (PDF). Pittsburgh, PA: Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation. 2010: 6. Retrieved June 25, 2010. 
  6. **^** "Internet Archive: Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation: PHLF Plaques & Registries". January 27, 2007. Archived from the original on January 27, 2007. Retrieved  February 25, 2008. 
  7. **^** "National Register of Historical Places - PENNSYLVANIA (PA), Allegheny County". _National Register of Historic Places_. National Park Service. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  8. **^** "National Register of Historic Places Inventory - Nomination Form: Cathedral of Learning" (PDF). 1967. Retrieved June 8, 2010. 
  9. **^** "Cathedral of Learning, Pittsburgh, U.S.A". _Emporis_. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Moscow State University, Moscow, Russia". _Emporis_. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  11. **^** "Cathedral of Learning, Pittsburgh". SkyscraperPage.com. Retrieved  December 7, 2012. 
  12. **^** Alberts, Robert C. (1986). _Pitt: The Story of the University of Pittsburgh, 1787-1987_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press. p. 129\. ISBN 0-8229-1150-7. Retrieved  November 10, 2009. 
  13. **^** Iacullo, Jessica (April 15, 2014). "YouTube sensations perform at Bigelow Bash". _The Pitt News_. Retrieved  March 5, 2016. 
  14. **^** Schackner, Bill (March 4, 2016). "Pitt's "Cathy" gets people chatty about nickname". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  March 5, 2016. 
  15. **^** "Campus Dining Locations". _Panther Central: Dining Services_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  16. **^** "Locations, Equipment, and Hours". _Information Technology: Computing Services and Systems Development_. University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on August 14, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "McCarl Center". College of General Studies, University of Pittsburgh. 2007. Archived from the original on July 25, 2011. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  18. **^** "Department of Philosophy". University of Pittsburgh. January 6, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  19. **^** Leitner, Brian (2009). "The Philosophical Gourmet Report 2009: Overall Rankings". _The Philosophical Gourmet Report: Brian Leiter's Ranking of Graduate Programs in Philosophy in the English-Speaking World_. Blackwell. Archived from the original on August 13, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  20. **^** "Department of History and Philosophy of Science". University of Pittsburgh. July 10, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  21. **^** "Internet Archive: The Philosophical Gourmet Report 2004-2006: Philosophy of the Sciences and Mathematics". 2008. Archived from the original on November 7, 2002. Retrieved  March 26, 2008. 
  22. **^** "The Philosophical Gourmet Report 2006-2008:Breakdown:Philosophy of Science". 2008. Archived from the original on September 9, 2012. Retrieved  March 26, 2008. 
  23. **^** "Graduate Programs in History and Philosophy of Science". philosophylists.info. 2005. Archived from the original on January 22, 2008. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  24. **^** "Media Enhanced Classrooms - Cathedral of Learning". Center for Instructional Development & Distance Education, University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on July 10, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  25. **^** "Live Webcams: Cathedral". University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on August 2, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  26. **^** "Alumni Traditions: Victory Lights". Pitt Alumni Association. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  27. **^** "92.1 WPTS Pittsburgh". WPTS Pittsburgh. Retrieved  December 22, 2010. 
  28. **^** "PA-SitRep.com (Pennsylvania Situation Report Web Site - O'Hara Township Amateur Radio Emergency Communications 443.45 Repeater)". Retrieved  December 22, 2010. 
  29. **^** "W3YJ - PARC Repeater - Pittsburgh, PA - Amateur Radio Repeaters on Waymarking.com". _Waymarking_. Retrieved  December 22, 2010. 
  30. **^** Pittsburgh Post-Gazette - News Links. Post-gazette.com. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
  31. **^** Trump, James D. (1973-03-1973). "National Register of Historic Places Inventory - Nomination Form: Cathedral of Learning" (PDF). Pennsylvania's Historic Architecture & Archaeology. Retrieved October 8, 2009.  Check date values in: `|date=` (help)
  32. **^** "Mode Gakuen Cocoon Tower, Tokyo, Japan". _Emporis_. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  33. **^** "Mode Gakuen Spiral Towers, Nagoya, Japan". Emporis. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  34. **^** https://news.google.com/newspapers?id=jHAhAAAAIBAJ&sjid=G4gFAAAAIBAJ&dq=skyscraper%20pittsburgh&pg=4009%2C4855955
  35. **^** https://news.google.com/newspapers?id=Q6AiAAAAIBAJ&sjid=bK8FAAAAIBAJ&dq=skyscraper%20pittsburgh&pg=2620%2C162383
  36. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Toker, Franklin (2009). _Pittsburgh: A New Portrait_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press. p.  327\. ISBN 0-8229-4371-9. 
  37. **^** Bridges, Robert (1912). _Poetical Works of Robert Bridges Excluding the Eight Dramas_. London: H. Frowde, Oxford University Press. p. 314\. ISBN 0-19-254114-5.  
  38. **^** Burger, Mary Lou (June 2, 1976). "Lawrence Lee Poem/Plaque to be Dedicated at Pitt" (Press release). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Department of News and Publications. Archived from the original on September 22, 2012. Retrieved May 21, 2011. 
  39. **^** Donovan, Sandra Fischione (November 23, 2008). "Pittsburgh stained-glass artist's work beautifies region". _Pittsburgh Tribune-Review_. Retrieved  November 12, 2009. 
  40. **^** The Nationality Rooms: about nationality rooms Archived October 28, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. Pitt.edu. Retrieved on July 17, 2013.
  41. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Alberts, Robert C. (1986). _Pitt: the story of the University of Pittsburgh, 1787-1987_. University of Pittsburgh Press. p. 135\. ISBN 978-0-8229-1150-0. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  42. **^** "The Nationality Rooms - rooms in planning". University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on May 28, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  43. **^** Fedele, John (March 12, 2007). "The Cathedral of Learning: A History". _Pitt Chronicle_. University News and Magazines, University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  44. **^** "About the Philippine Nationality Room". The Filipino American Association of Pittsburgh, Inc. and the Philippine Nationality Room Committee, University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  45. **^** "Finnish Nationality Room Information". The Finlandia Foundation, Pittsburgh Chapter and The Finnish Committee, University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  46. **^** "Iranian Nationality Room". November 18, 2010. Archived from the original on December 26, 2010. Retrieved  December 16, 2010. 
  47. **^** "The Latin American & Caribbean Heritage Room...Bienvenidos Amigos! Welcome Friends!". The Latin American & Caribbean Heritage Room committee, University of Pittsburgh. January 8, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  48. **^** Bruhns, E. Maxine (Spring 2014). "Message From the Director" (PDF). _Nationality Rooms Newsletter_. **95**. Nationality Rooms and Intercultural Exchange Programs at the University of Pittsburgh. p.  3. Retrieved April 12, 2014. 
  49. **^** "U. of Pittsburgh Thai room planned". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. May 12, 2005. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  50. **^** Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis Community Development Project. "Consumer Price Index (estimate) 1800–". Federal Reserve Bank of Minneapolis. Retrieved January 2, 2017. 
  51. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Gillogly, Keith (February 28, 2011). "Top of Cathedral offers rooms, great view". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  March 1, 2011. 
  52. **^** Pfaffmann, Rob (September 2005). "University of Pittsburgh Civic Center Conservation Plan" (PDF). Pfaffmann + Associates, PC and the Getty Foundation Campus Heritage Program: 62. Retrieved January 27, 2010. 
  53. **^** Holohan, Meghan (Fall 2003). "Standing Tall". Pitt Magazine. Retrieved August 2, 2010. 
  54. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Secrets of the Cathedral: Starting at the top". _University Times_. **36** (2). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved  August 1, 2010. 
  55. **^** Rea, William H. "Remembering Wes: Friends, family, former colleagues reminisce". _University Times_. **34** (1). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 1, 2010. 
  56. **^** "For the birds". _University Times_. **40** (19). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. May 29, 2008. Retrieved  August 1, 2010. 
  57. **^** Sivak, Maryann (Fall 2015). "Nationality Rooms Program Activities" (PDF). _Nationality Rooms Newsletter_. **98** : 7. Retrieved November 15, 2015. 
  58. **^** Pfaffmann, Rob (September 2005). "University of Pittsburgh Civic Center Conservation Plan" (PDF). Pfaffmann + Associates, PC and the Getty Foundation Campus Heritage Program: 63. Retrieved January 27, 2010. 
  59. **^** "The Twelfth Floor". _The History of Women at Pitt_. Office of the Provost, University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  60. **^** "Life Visits a Haunted House". _LIFE_ : 122–125. June 11, 1945. Retrieved May 26, 2014. 
  61. **^** https://web.archive.org/web/20070720050412/http://mac10.umc.pitt.edu/u/FMPro?-db=ustory&-lay=a&-format=d.html&storyid=1676&-Find. Archived from the original on July 20, 2007. Retrieved  June 9, 2007.  Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  62. **^** Heller-LaBelle, Greg (May 11, 2006). "Could your University be full of spooky spirits?". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  63. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Three RIvers Haunts & History". p. 8. Retrieved  November 25, 2009. 
  64. **^** Scott, Gene (March 1, 2009). "The Next Page: Mansion of Ironies". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  65. **^** Gibel-Lukens, Jeannine (November 5, 1993). "A Different Approach: the Arts and Crafts Village". _Planning the Pitt Campus: Dreams and Schemes Never Realized_. University of Pittsburgh.  
  66. **^** "Documenting Pitt". _Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh (27): 48. Winter 1947. Archived from the original on February 10, 2016. Retrieved  April 12, 2014. 
  67. **^** "Frick Fine Arts Building & The Nicholas Lochoff Cloister" (PDF). _Frick Fine Arts Library Library Guide Series_ (25). August 15, 2006. Archived from the original (PDF) on June 27, 2010. Retrieved November 19, 2009. 
  68. **^** White, Patricia Lomando (January 19, 2010). "Pitt's New Humanities Center To Foster Collaborative Work". _Pitt Chronicle_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on June 17, 2010. Retrieved  January 20, 2010. 
  69. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Starret, Agnes Lynch (1938). _The Darlington Memorial Library_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press. p. 3. Retrieved  November 18, 2009. 
  70. **^** "Humanities Center hosts inaugural conference". _University Times_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. November 12, 2009. Retrieved  November 18, 2009. 
  71. **^** "Report of the Chancellor to the Trustees July 1, 1934, to June 30, 1936". _University of Pittsburgh Bulletin_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. **33** (2): 95–96. October 15, 1936. Archived from the original on August 13, 2012. Retrieved  November 18, 2009. 
  72. **^** "Darlington Memorial Library". Archived from the original on April 10, 2008. Retrieved  November 18, 2009. 
  73. **^** "The Darlington Digital Library". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  November 18, 2009. 
  74. **^** Hart, Peter; Barlow, Kimberly K. (September 3, 2009). "What's New? Places". _University Times_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on June 9, 2010. Retrieved  September 8, 2009. 
  75. **^** "Darlington Memorial Library main entrance virtual tour". Archived from the original on May 20, 2011. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  76. **^** "Darlington Memorial Library main room virtual tour". Archived from the original on May 20, 2011. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  77. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Somerville, K. Briar (Summer 2015). "GSWS Program's New Home in the Cathedral of Learning". _Gender, Sexuality, & Women's Studies Program_ (2). Retrieved October 12, 2015. 
  78. **^** Barlow, Kimberly K.; Levine, Marty (August 29, 2013). "What's New at Pitt: Places". _University Times_. **46** (1). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  September 12, 2013. 
  79. **^** "Strada - McCarl Center for Nontraditional Student Success". Strada, LLC. Archived from the original on February 1, 2008. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  80. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "About the McCarl Center". College of General Studies, University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on July 25, 2011. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  81. **^** "Secrets of the Cathedral: From 38 on down". _University Times_. **36** (2). University of Pittsburgh. September 11, 2003. Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved  August 1, 2010. 
  82. **^** "Memorial Room is Dedicated in Pitt Ceremony". _The Pittsburgh Press_. December 22, 1942. p.  27. Retrieved August 22, 2014. 
  83. **^** "Media Enhanced Classrooms: Cathedral of Learning - Room 204". University of Pittsburgh Center for Instructional Development & Distance Education. Archived from the original on July 10, 2010. Retrieved  August 22, 2014. 
  84. **^** Lohstoeter, Lotte Olga (March 1943). "The Justus Mulert Memorial Room". _The Alumni Review_. General Alumni Association of the University of Pittsburgh: 10. Archived from the original on February 10, 2016. Retrieved  August 22, 2014. 
  85. **^** "Pitt Dedicates Mulert Room". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. December 22, 1942. p.  12. Retrieved May 26, 2009. 
  86. **^** "Performance Spaces". Department of Theatre Arts, University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on December 2, 2009. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  87. **^** "Alumnus Gifts $1 Million to Theatre Arts" (Press release). University of Pittsburgh. July 28, 2017. Retrieved  July 28, 2017. 
  88. **^** "University Honors College". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  89. **^** "About UHC: Architecture". University Honors College, University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on June 9, 2010. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  90. **^** Barlow, Kimberly K. (December 4, 2008). "Making Pitt Work: Josh Cochran". _University Times_. **41** (8). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 1, 2010. 
  91. **^** Steele, Bruce (March 22, 2001). "Plans call for a cooler and less congested Cathedral of Learning". _University Times_. University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on September 20, 2006. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  92. **^** Erdley, Debra (2014-03-05). "Going up: Pitt OKs elevator upgrade at Cathedral of Learning". TribLIVE. Retrieved 2016-03-12. 
  93. **^** "Cathedral of Learning LEGO Cuusoo Project". Retrieved  April 12, 2014. 
  94. **^** Sciullo, Maria (October 18, 2009). "Pittsburgh's profile rising in video games". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  October 18, 2009. 
  95. **^** Leff, Amanda (April 14, 2008). "Cathedral of Learning to Be Featured April 16 on Travel Channel's Made In America". _Pitt Chronicle_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  96. **^** "Pittsburgh - 15 bonnes raisons d'aller à .." Évasion.tv. 2012. Retrieved  February 5, 2013. 
  97. **^** Bruhns, E. Maxine, ed. (Fall 2012). "Events" (PDF). _Nationality Rooms Newsletter_. Nationality Rooms and Intercultural Exchange Programs at the University of Pittsburgh. **92** : 8. Retrieved February 5, 2013. 
  98. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rosengarten, Richard. "Secrets of the Cathedral" (PDF). _The Original Magazine_. Pittsburgh Reed  & Witting Company (4): 50. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 29, 2009. 
  99. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Steele, Bruce (March 8, 2001). "Lights-camera-action: "Mothman" invades Pitt campus". **33** (13). _University Times_. Retrieved  June 30, 2011. 
  100. **^** Joseph, Gar (April 12, 2013). "'42' offers stadium nostalgia". _Philadelphia Daily News_. Retrieved  May 9, 2013. 
  101. **^** Owen, Rob (October 28, 2008). "City sets the scene for sorority thriller". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  September 15, 2009. 
  102. **^** "Free Preview: Angles in the Outfield (1951)". Amazon.com. Retrieved  October 28, 2009. 
  103. **^** "Smithsonian American Art Museum: Harry W. Scheuch". Smithsonian Institution. Retrieved  May 31, 2009. 
  104. **^** Review on _One A Day. 365 Views of the Cathedral of Learning_
  105. **^** Review on _One A Day. 365 Views of the Cathedral of Learning_
  106. **^** Mangin, Brad (October 26, 2010). "The 10 Greatest World Series Photos of All Time". Photoshelter. Archived from the original on October 30, 2010. Retrieved March 29, 2011. 
  107. **^** "LIFE's Best Baseball Pictures: Above It All". Pittsburgh, PA: LIFE.com. Retrieved  March 29, 2010. 
  108. **^** "Emporis.com: Cathedral of Learning, Bangkok". Emporis. Retrieved  May 5, 2009. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Alberts, Robert C. (1986). _Pitt: the story of the University of Pittsburgh, 1787-1987_. University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN 978-0-8229-1150-0.  
  * Bowman, John G. (1963). _Unofficial notes_.  
  * Brown, Mark McCullough (1987). _The Cathedral of Learning: concept, design, construction_. University Art Gallery, Henry Clay Frick Fine Arts Building, University of Pittsburgh.  
  * Starrett, Agnes Lynch (1938). _The Darlington Memorial Library: University of Pittsburgh_. University of Pittsburgh Press.  
  * Nationality Rooms Guide Training Material

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Cathedral of Learning**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Cathedral of Learning Virtual Tour
  * History of the Cathedral of Learning
  * Nationality Rooms homepage
  * Nationality Rooms Virtual Tour

Panoramas

  * 360° panorama of the Cathedral
  * 360° panorama of the Commons Room
  * 180° panorama Gigapan of the Commons Room
  * Gigapan of the Cathedral's Commons Room
  * Gigapan of the Austrian Nationality Room
  * Gigapan from the 36th floor of the Cathedral
  * Gigapan of a somewhat squished front of the Cathedral of Learning

Video

  * Cathedral of Learning feature on John Ratzenberger's Made in America
  * WQED OnQ: Pitt Preservation Project: Cathedral of Learning
  * WQED OnQ: E. Maxine Bruhns & The Nationality Rooms
  * Nature Footage: Aerial Of University Of Pittsburgh, Cathedral Of Learning
  * Post-Gazette.com: The Cathedral of Learning's Peregrine falcon chicks

Preceded by  
Bellefield Hall | **University of Pittsburgh Buildings  
Cathedral of Learning**  
Constructed: 1926-1937 |  Succeeded by  
Falk School  
---|---|---  
Preceded by  
525 William Penn Place | **Pittsburgh Skyscrapers by Height**  
535 feet (163 m)  
42 floors |  Succeeded by  
Tower at PNC Plaza  
Preceded by  
Gulf Tower | **Pittsburgh Skyscrapers by Year of Completion**  
1936 |  Succeeded by  
525 William Penn Place  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

US National Register of Historic Places in Pennsylvania  
  
---  
Topics |

  * Contributing property
  * Keeper of the Register
  * Historic district
  * History of the National Register of Historic Places
  * National Park Service
  * Property types

|

  
  
  
  
Lists by county |

  * Adams
  * Allegheny
  * Armstrong
  * Beaver
  * Bedford
  * Berks
  * Blair
  * Bradford
  * Bucks
  * Butler
  * Cambria
  * Cameron
  * Carbon
  * Centre
  * Chester
    * East
    * North
    * South
  * Clarion
  * Clearfield
  * Clinton
  * Columbia
  * Crawford
  * Cumberland
  * Dauphin
  * Delaware
  * Elk
  * Erie
  * Fayette
  * Forest
  * Franklin
  * Fulton
  * Greene
  * Huntingdon
  * Indiana
  * Jefferson
  * Juniata
  * Lackawanna
  * Lancaster
  * Lawrence
  * Lebanon
  * Lehigh
  * Luzerne
  * Lycoming
  * McKean
  * Mercer
  * Mifflin
  * Monroe
  * Montgomery
  * Montour
  * Northampton
  * Northumberland
  * Perry
  * Philadelphia
  * Pike
  * Potter
  * Schuylkill
  * Snyder
  * Somerset
  * Sullivan
  * Susquehanna
  * Tioga
  * Union
  * Venango
  * Warren
  * Washington
  * Wayne
  * Westmoreland
  * Wyoming
  * York

  
  
Lists by city |

  * Pittsburgh
  * Lancaster
  * Philadelphia
    * Center City
    * North
    * Northeast
    * Northwest
    * South
    * Southwest
    * West

  
  
Other lists |

  * European archaeological sites
  * Native American archaeological sites
  * Bridges (covered)
  * National Historic Landmarks (Philadelphia)

  
  
  * Category
  * NRHP portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

University of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
**Located in** : Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  
  
Academics |

| Schools and  
Colleges |

  * Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences
  * Business
  * Dental Medicine
  * Education
    * Fanny Edel Falk Laboratory School
  * Swanson School of Engineering
  * General Studies
  * Katz Graduate School of Business
  * Health and Rehabilitation Sciences
  * Honors College
  * Computing and Information
  * Law
  * Medicine
  * Nursing
  * Pharmacy
  * Public and International Affairs
  * Public Health
  * Social Work

  
  
---|---  
Centers and  
Institutes |

  * Archives Service Center
  * Cancer Institute
  * Center for International Studies
    * Latin American Studies
  * Center for Philosophy of Science
  * Epidemiology Data Center
  * Ford Institute for Human Security
  * Learning Research and Development Center
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Stuttering Center of Western Pennsylvania

  
  
Athletics |

| Sports |

  * Pittsburgh Panthers
  * Football
  * Men's Basketball
  * Women's Basketball
  * Baseball
  * Softball
  * Soccer
  * Volleyball
  * Wrestling

  
  
---|---  
Facilities |

  * Heinz Field
  * Petersen Events Center
  * UPMC Sports Performance Complex
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Cost Sports Center
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Trees Hall

  
  
Rivalries |

  * Backyard Brawl
  * City Game
  * Penn State–Pitt rivalry
  * River City Rivalry
  * ACC
  * EAGL

  
  
Spirit |

  * Panther mascot
  * Oakland Zoo
  * Varsity Marching Band
  * "Hail to Pitt"
  * "Victory Song"
  * "Alma Mater"

  
  
Life |

| Groups |

  * Friday Nite Improvs
  * Heinz Chapel Choir
  * Pitt Stages
  * William Pitt Debating Union

  
  
---|---  
Media |

  * _The Pitt News_
  * _University Times_
  * _The Original_
  * WPTS-FM
  * UPTV
  * JURIST

  
  
Journals |

  * _Hot Metal Bridge_
  * _Three Rivers Review_
  * _Pitt Law Review_
  * _Journal of Law and Commerce_
  * _Pitt Journal of Environmental and Public Health Law_
  * _Pitt Journal of Technology Law& Policy_
  * _Pitt Tax Review_

  
  
Pittsburgh  
Campus |

| Historic  
Buildings |

  * Allegheny Observatory
  * Allen Hall
  * Alumni Hall
  * Bellefield Hall
  * Cathedral of Learning
    * Nationality Rooms
  * Chancellor's Residence
  * Clapp Hall
  * Gardner Steel Conference Center
  * Heinz Memorial Chapel
  * Frick Fine Arts Building
  * Music Building
  * O'Hara Student Center
  * Ruskin Hall
  * Salk Hall
  * Schenley Quadrangle
  * Stephen Foster Memorial
  * Thackeray Hall
  * Thaw Hall
  * UCDC
  * University Club
  * William Pitt Union

  
  
---|---  
Other  
Buildings |

  * Barco Law Building
  * Benedum Hall
  * Bouquet Gardens
  * Chevron Science Center
  * Clapp/Langley/Crawford Complex
  * David Lawrence Hall
  * Eberly Hall
  * Forbes Hall
  * Forbes Tower
  * Hillman Library
  * Information Sciences
  * Irvis Hall
  * LRDC
  * Litchfield Towers
  * Log Cabin
  * Lothrop Hall
  * Mervis Hall
  * Nordenberg Hall
  * Old Engineering Hall
  * Parran Hall
  * Panther Hall
  * SRCC
  * Posvar Hall
  * Scaife Hall
  * Sennott Square
  * Sutherland Hall
  * Victoria Building

  
  
Around  
Campus |

  * Oakland
    * Schenley Farms Historic District
  * UPMC
  * Schenley Park
  * Schenley Plaza
  * Carnegie Museums
    * _Dippy_
  * Carnegie Library
  * Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
  * Pittsburgh Science and Technology Academy
  * Soldiers and Sailors Memorial
  * Mellon Institute
  * _Light Up_
  * Mary Schenley Memorial Fountain
  * _Stephen Foster_ sculpture
  * The "O"
  * Cloud Factory

  
  
Other  
Locations |

| Regional |

  * Bradford
  * Greensburg
  * Johnstown
    * Pasquerilla Performing Arts Center
  * Titusville

  
  
---|---  
Facilities |

  * Cook Spring Creek Preserve
  * Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology
  * U-PARC

  
  
People |

  * Alumni
  * Faculty
  * Chancellors

  
  
Miscellaneous |

  * History
    * Pitt Stadium
    * Trees Field
    * University Place Office Building
  * Transportation
  * Press
  * D-Scribe
  * _Pitt Poetry Series_
  * Gene Kelly Awards

  
  
  * **Founded** : 1787
  * **Students** : 28,617
  * **Endowment** : 3,589 billion
  * Portal
  * Categories
  * Commons

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * History
    * Timeline
  * Culture
  * Dialect
  * Media
  * Neighborhoods
  * Notable people
  * Skyscrapers

  
  
|

Government  
  
---  
  
  * Airport
  * Conventions
  * City Hall
  * Courthouse
  * Mayor
  * Council
  * Events
  * InterGov
  * Police
  * D.A.
  * Sheriff
  * Fire
  * Libraries
  * Transit
  * Education
  * Port
  * Regional

  
  
|

Economy  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Conference
  * Duquesne Club
  * Chamber of Commerce
  * Economic Club
  * HYP Club
  * Stock Exchange

  
  
---  
  
| Fortune 500 headquarters |

  * U.S. Steel
  * PNC Financial Services
  * PPG Industries
  * Kraft Heinz
  * Mylan
  * WESCO International
  * Consol Energy
  * Dick's Sporting Goods
  * Allegheny Technologies

  
  
---|---  
Forbes largest private  
companies headquarters |

  * 84 Lumber
  * Giant Eagle

  
  
Other corporation headquarters |

  * American Bridge
  * American Eagle Outfitters
  * Ampco Pittsburgh
  * ANSYS
  * Armstrong Communications
  * Atlas America
  * Black Box
  * Bruster's Ice Cream
  * Calgon Carbon
  * Compunetix
  * Dollar Bank
  * DQE Energy
  * Eat'n Park
  * EDMC
  * EQT Energy
  * Federated Investors
  * GNC
  * Guru.com
  * Highmark
  * H. Laughlin China
  * iGate
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Kennametal
  * Koppers
  * MARC USA
  * Millcraft Industries
  * Mine Safety Appliances
  * Niche.com
  * Oxford Development
  * PTC Alliance
  * Renda Broadcasting
  * rue21
  * University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
  * Vocelli Pizza
  * Wabtec

  
  
Companies with split headquarters |

  * Alcoa
  * ModCloth
  * NOVA Chemicals

  
  
Subsidiary company headquarters |

  * Allegheny Energy
  * Bayer Corporation
  * FedEx Ground
  * GlaxoSmithKline USA
  * LANXESS
  * Respironics
  * Vivisimo
  * Westinghouse Electric Company

  
  
Outside companies with  
strong Pittsburgh relations |

  * BNY Mellon (formerly Mellon Financial)
  * Dreyfus Corporation
  * Eaton Corporation
  * Spreadshirt
  * Macy's

  
  
Historic |

  * Fisher's Big Wheel
  * Clark Bar
  * Dravo
  * Fisher Scientific
  * Integra Bank
  * Mesta Machinery
  * G. C. Murphy
  * Gulf Oil
  * J&L Steel
  * Ketchum
  * Rockwell
  * Sunbeam
  * Westinghouse

  
  
List of corporations in Pittsburgh  
  
|

Sports  
  
---  
  
|

  * Dapper Dan
  * Grand Prix
  * Great Race
  * Head of the Ohio
  * Lore
  * Marathon
  * Mylan Classic
  * Regatta
  * WPHL

  
  
---  
Baseball |

  * Pirates
  * Wild Things
  * Panthers
  * Dukes

    _Chronicle-Telegraph Cup_
    Allegheny
    Burghers
    Champions
    Crawfords
    Filipinos
    Grays
    Hardhats
    Keystones
    Stogies
    Rebels  
  
Basketball |

  * Yellow Jackets
  * Panthers (m)
  * Panthers (w)
  * Dukes (m)
  * Dukes (w)
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)

    Roundball Classic
    Condors
    Ironmen
    Loendi
    Monticello
    Phantoms
    Pipers
    Piranhas
    Pirates
    Rens
    Xplosion  
  
Football |

  * Steelers
  * Panthers
  * Steeler Nation
  * heritage
  * Colts
  * Force
  * Passion
  * Renegades

    1898 All-Stars
    Allegheny
    Americans
    A's
    Duquesne
    Gladiators
    Homestead
    Lyceum
    Maulers
    Power
    Odds
    Olympics
    Quakers
    JP
    Stars
    Early Pro Football Circuit  
  
Hockey |

  * Penguins
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)
  * Three Rivers Classic

    A's
    Bankers
    Cougars
    Duquesne
    Ft. Pitt
    Hornets
    Keystones
    Lyceum
    Panthers
    Phantoms
    Pirates
    Pirates (WPHL)
    Pros
    Shamrocks
    Victorias
    Winter Garden
    Yellow Jackets  
  
Soccer |

  * Riverhounds

    Beadling
    Cannons
    Hurricanes
    Phantoms
    Spirit  
  
Other |

    Sledgehammers
    Bulls
    Harlequins
    PCC
    Triangles
    Wallabies
    Studio Wrestling
    Dirty Dozen  
  
Venues |

  * PPG Paints Arena
  * Heinz Field
  * PNC Park
  * 84 Lumber Arena
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Highmark Stadium
  * Palumbo Center
  * Petersen Events Center
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Rooney Field
  * Sewall Center
  * Trees Hall

    Central Park
    Civic Arena
    Duquesne Gardens
    Exposition Park
    Forbes Field
    Josh Gibson Field
    Greenlee Field
    Motor Square Garden
    Pitt Stadium
    Recreation Park
    Schenley Gardens
    Three Rivers
    Winter Garden  
  
|

Parks  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Arsenal
  * Allegheny Commons
  * Allegheny Riverfront
  * ArtGardens
  * Buhl Community
  * Chatham University Arboretum
  * Frank Curto
  * **Frick**
  * **Emerald View**
  * **Highland**
  * Market Square
  * Mellon
  * Mellon Green
  * Mellon Square
  * North Shore Riverfront
  * Phillips
  * Point of View
  * Point State
  * PPG Place
  * **Riverview**
  * Roberto Clemente Memorial
  * Rodef Shalom Biblical Botanical Garden
  * **Schenley**
  * Schenley Plaza
  * South Shore Riverfront
  * South Side
  * **Three Rivers**
  * West End Overlook
  * Westinghouse

  
  
---  
  
|

Transportation  
  
---  
  
|

  * Inclines
  * Steps

  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Port Authority of Allegheny County  
  
---  
Light rail  
(List of stations) |

  *      Blue Line – Library
  *      Blue Line – South Hills Village
  *      Red Line – Castle Shannon
  *      Red Line – South Hills Village

|  
  
Inclines  
(Historical list) |

  * Duquesne Incline
  * Monongahela Incline

  
  
Buses and busways  
(List of routes) |

  *      Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway
  *      South Busway
  *      West Busway

  
  
Former lines |

  * 47 Drake
  * Brown Line
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
Other |

  * North Shore Connector
  * Port Authority 4000 Series PCC
  * Wabash Tunnel

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Public transportation in Greater Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Bus services |

  * **Port Authority of Allegheny County**
    * list of bus routes
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Fayette
  * IndiGO
  * Mid Mon Valley
  * Mountain Line
  * New Castle
  * Town & Country
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Washington
  * Westmoreland

  
  
Bus rapid transit |

  * MLK Jr. East Busway
  * South Busway
  * West Busway

  
  
Light rail |

  * Red Line
  * Blue Line 
    * Library
    * South Hills Village

  
  
Inclines |

  * Duquesne
  * Monongahela

  
  
Amtrak |

  * _Capitol Limited_
  * _Pennsylvanian_

  
  
Airports |

  * **Pittsburgh International**
  * **Arnold Palmer**
  * Allegheny County
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Eddie Dew
  * Greensburg Jeannette
  * Herron
  * Jefferson
  * Jimmy Stewart
  * Joe Hardy
  * Lakehill
  * Monroeville
  * New Castle
  * Rock
  * Rostraver
  * Washington
  * Wheeling
  * Zelienople

  
  
Discontinued |

  * _Broadway Limited_
  * Brown Line
  * List of streetcar routes in Pittsburgh
  * _Parkway Limited_
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Tunnels and bridges in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Tunnels |

  * Allegheny River Tunnel
  * Armstrong Tunnel
  * Cork Run Tunnel
  * Corliss Tunnel
  * Fort Pitt Tunnel
  * J&L Tunnel
  * Liberty Tunnel
  * Mount Washington Transit Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh and Castle Shannon Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh & Steubenville Extension Railroad Tunnel
  * Schenley Tunnel
  * Squirrel Hill Tunnel
  * Wabash Tunnel

|  
  
Bridges |

  * 30th Street Bridge
  * 31st Street Bridge
  * 33rd Street Railroad Bridge
  * 40th Street Bridge
  * Bloomfield Bridge
  * Birmingham Bridge
  * David McCullough Bridge
  * Fort Duquesne Bridge
  * Fort Pitt Bridge
  * Fort Wayne Railroad Bridge
  * Glenwood Bridge
  * Glenwood B&O Railroad Bridge
  * Highland Park Bridge
  * Homestead Grays Bridge
  * Hot Metal Bridge
  * Liberty Bridge
  * McKees Rocks Bridge
  * Panhandle Bridge
  * Panther Hollow Bridge
  * Schenley Bridge
  * Senator Robert D. Fleming Bridge
  * Smithfield Street Bridge
  * South Tenth Street Bridge
  * Three Sisters
    * Roberto Clemente Bridge
    * Andy Warhol Bridge
    * Rachel Carson Bridge
  * Veterans Bridge
  * West End Bridge

  
  
|

Attractions  
  
---  
  
|

  * Aviary
  * Baywood
  * Cathedral of Learning
  * Chinatown
  * Conservatory
  * _Dippy_
  * Immaculate Heart
  * Duquesne Incline
  * Heinz Chapel
  * Little Italy
  * Mellon Institute
  * Mon Incline
  * Observatory
  * Pamela's
  * Penn Station
  * _Point of View_ sculpture
  * Primanti's
  * Science Center
  * Steps
  * USS _Requin_
  * Zoo
  * Kennywood
  * Luna Park
  * Westinghouse Sign

  
  
---  
Landmarks |

  * National (City)
  * National (County)
  * State
  * City
  * PHLF
  * Cultural

  
  
Museums |

  * Art
  * Arts
  * Arts Festival
  * Bible
  * Fort Pitt and Blockhouse
  * Clayton
  * Clemente
  * Children's
  * Frick
  * Glass Center
  * History
  * Jazz
  * Jewish
  * Mattress Factory
  * Dental
  * Miller
  * Miss Pittsburgh
  * Nationality Rooms
  * National Map
  * Natural History
  * Soldiers and Sailors
  * Warhol
  * Wilson
  * WSG

  
  
Venues |

  * Heinz Hall
  * Benedum
  * Byham
  * Harris
  * Kelly-Strayhorn
  * New Hazlett
  * O'Reilly
  * Foster
  * Playhouse
  * Trib
  * Hunt
  * Stage AE
  * Syria Mosque
  * Nixon Theater

  
  
Festivals |

  * Anthrocon
  * Arts
  * Blues
  * Comicon
  * Fashion
  * Film
  * Folk
  * Handmade
  * New Works
  * Tekko
  * Whiskey & Fine Spirits
  * Wine

  
  
|

Shopping and entertainment  
  
---  
  
  * Casino
  * Gateway Clipper Fleet
  * Station Square
  * Strip
  * Downtown
  * Oakland
  * South Side

  * Macy's
  * Market Square
  * Southside Works
  * Waterworks
  * Mount Washington
  * East Liberty
  * Squirrel Hill
  * Shadyside
  * Walnut Street

  * Opera
  * Ballet
  * Symphony
  * Brass
  * Classical Theatre
  * Dance
  * Ensemble
  * Caravan Theatre
  * Folk
  * Light Opera
  * Opera Theater
  * Jewish Theatre
  * Public Theater
  * Playwrights
  * Musical Theater
  * Stage Right
  * Youth Ballet
  * Youth Symphony
  * Bricolage
  * NNOC

|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Shopping malls in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Enclosed |

  * Beaver Valley Mall
  * The Block Northway
  * Century III Mall
  * The Galleria of Mt. Lebanon
  * The Mall at Robinson
  * Monroeville Mall
  * Pittsburgh Mills
  * Ross Park Mall
  * South Hills Village
  * Station Square
  * Uniontown Mall
  * Warner Centre
  * Washington Crown Center
  * Westmoreland Mall

  
  
Lifestyle /  
Outdoor |

  * Bakery Square
  * Edgewood Towne Centre
  * Ellsworth Avenue
  * McCandless Crossing
  * Northern Lights
  * Robinson Town Centre
  * Settlers Ridge
  * SouthSide Works
  * Walnut Street
  * The Waterfront
  * Waterworks Mall

  
  
Outlet |

  * Grove City Premium Outlets
  * Tanger Outlets Pittsburgh

  
  
Defunct |

  * Allegheny Center Mall
  * East Hills Shopping Center (Eastgate Commerce Center)
  * Eastland Mall
  * Greengate Mall
  * Parkway Center Mall
  * Village Square Mall
  * Washington Mall

  
  
|

Colleges and universities  
  
---  
  
  * Pitt
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Duquesne
  * Robert Morris
  * Chatham
  * Point Park
  * Carlow
  * Art Institute
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Saint Paul Seminary
  * CCAC

  
  
|

Culture of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * Cookie table
  * Jewish history
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Jagoff
  * Joe Magarac
  * _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_
  * Mr. Yuk
  * Parking chairs
  * Pittsburgh left
  * Pittsburgh toilet
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * Steeler Nation

  
  
  * **Book**
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cathedral_of_Learning&oldid=814615715"

Categories:

  * University and college buildings on the National Register of Historic Places in Pennsylvania
  * Skyscrapers in Pittsburgh
  * Gothic Revival architecture in Pennsylvania
  * Gothic Revival skyscrapers
  * Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmarks
  * City of Pittsburgh historic designations
  * University of Pittsburgh academic buildings
  * University and college administration buildings in the United States
  * Art Deco architecture in Pennsylvania
  * School buildings completed in 1936
  * Historic district contributing properties in Pennsylvania
  * National Register of Historic Places in Pittsburgh
  * Individually listed contributing properties to historic districts on the National Register in Pennsylvania
  * Skyscrapers in Pennsylvania

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 errors: dates
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Pages with citations lacking titles
  * Pages with citations having bare URLs
  * Use mdy dates from August 2014
  * Wikipedia page with obscure country or subdivision
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from October 2010
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from March 2017
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2001
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Català
  * Deutsch
  * Français
  * עברית
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Polski

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 9 December 2017, at 22:13.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

