

# Charles Pratt

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

For other people named Charles Pratt, see Charles Pratt (disambiguation).

Charles Pratt  
---  
Born | (1830-10-02)October 2, 1830  
Died | May 4, 1891(1891-05-04) (aged 60)  
Nationality | American  
Spouse(s) | Lydia Ann Richardson, Mary Helen Richardson  
Children | Charles Millard Pratt, Lydia Richardson Pratt, Helen Pratt,
Frederic B. Pratt, George Dupont Pratt, Herbert L. Pratt, John Teele Pratt,
Harold I. Pratt  
  
**Charles Pratt** (October 2, 1830 – May 4, 1891) was an American businessman
and philanthropist. Pratt was a pioneer of the U.S. petroleum industry, and
established his kerosene refinery Astral Oil Works in Brooklyn, New York. He
then lived with his growing family in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn. He recruited
Henry H. Rogers into his business, forming Charles Pratt and Company in 1867,
and seven years later Pratt and Rogers agreed to join John D. Rockefeller's
Standard Oil.

An advocate of education, Pratt founded and endowed the Pratt Institute in
Brooklyn, now a renowned art college. He and his children built country
estates in Glen Cove, New York, developments in what became known as the Gold
Coast in the 1920s on the North Shore of Long Island. In 1916, Standard Oil
had a steamship tanker, first of its class, built at Newport News, Virginia
and named it in honor of Pratt after his death.

## Contents

  * 1 Early life and education
  * 2 Career
    * 2.1 Whale oil, petroleum, Astral Oil
    * 2.2 Henry H. Rogers, Charles Pratt and Company
    * 2.3 Standard Oil associations
    * 2.4 Later ventures
  * 3 Philanthropy
  * 4 Personal life
  * 5 Legacy and honors
    * 5.1 Long Island mansions
    * 5.2 Pratt Cemetery
    * 5.3 Pratt, West Virginia
    * 5.4 Steamship tanker S.S. _Charles Pratt_
  * 6 See also
  * 7 References
  * 8 External links

## Early life and education[edit]

Charles Pratt was born in Wilbraham, Massachusetts,[1] one of eleven children.
He was the son of Elizabeth Stone and Asa Pratt, a carpenter. He spent three
winters as a student at Wesleyan Academy (now Wilbraham & Monson Academy).[
_citation needed_ ]

## Career[edit]

### Whale oil, petroleum, Astral Oil[edit]

As a young man, Pratt joined a company in nearby Boston, Massachusetts, that
specialized in paints and whale oil products. In 1850 or 1851, he moved to New
York City, where he worked for a similar company.[ _citation needed_ ] Pratt
realized that whale oil could be replaced by petroleum ("natural oil")
distillates to light lamps. He became a pioneer of the petroleum industry as
new wells were established in western Pennsylvania in the 1860s.[2] In the
1869s he then established his kerosene refinery, Astral Oil Works, in
Brooklyn, New York. One advertising slogan was "The holy lamps of Tibet are
primed with Astral Oil."[2]

### Henry H. Rogers, Charles Pratt and Company[edit]

Pratt and his future business partner Henry H. Rogers became acquainted while
doing business in the oil fields of Pennsylvania.[3] In the mid-1860s, Pratt
met two young men, Charles Ellis and Rogers, in the area of the new oil fields
of Venango County in western Pennsylvania. Previously, Pratt had bought whale
oil from Ellis in Fairhaven, Massachusetts, his and Rogers' coastal hometown.
They struck a deal and pre-sold the entire output of their small venture,
Wamsutta Oil Refinery, to Pratt's company at a fixed price. But, Ellis and
Rogers soon were heavily in debt to Pratt.[ _citation needed_ ] Ellis gave up,
but in 1866, Rogers went to Pratt in New York City to say he would take
personal responsibility for the entire debt. Impressed, Pratt immediately
hired Rogers for his own organization.[ _citation needed_ ] After five years
in the oil fields, in 1866 Pratt asked Rogers to come to the Brooklyn side of
the business, where Rogers worked for the next eight years.[3] Pratt made
Rogers foreman of his Brooklyn refinery, with a promise of a partnership if
sales ran over $50,000 annually.[ _citation needed_ ]

In 1867, with Rogers as a partner, Pratt established the firm of Charles Pratt
and Company. According to Elbert Hubbard, a journalist, in the next few years
Rogers became Pratt's "hands and feet and eyes and ears."[4] In 1867, Pratt
built “America’s first modern oil refinery (Astral Oil) on the banks of
Newtown Creek,”[5] In 1869, Pratt trademarked “Pratt’s Astral Oil.”[6]

### Standard Oil associations[edit]

In the early 1870s, Pratt and Rogers became involved in conflicts with John D.
Rockefeller's South Improvement Company. Rockefeller had obtained favorable
net rates from the Pennsylvania Railroad (PRR) and other railroads through a
secret system of rebates. His actions outraged independent oil producers and
refineries in western Pennsylvania and other areas. The New York interests
formed an association, and about the middle of March 1872, sent a committee of
three, with Rogers as head, to Oil City, Pennsylvania to consult with the Oil
Producers' Union.[ _citation needed_ ] Working with the Pennsylvania
independents, Rogers and his associates forged an agreement with the PRR and
other railroads; the railroads eventually agreed to open rates to all and
promised to end their special dealings with South Improvement. The oil men
felt victorious, but Rockefeller had already begun to buy up opposing
interests in the formation of Standard Oil.[ _citation needed_ ]

Pratt's name, written in stone in the Standard Oil Building lobby

A short time later, Rockefeller approached Charles Pratt with plans for
cooperation and consolidation. Pratt and Rogers decided that the plan would
benefit their business plans. Rogers formulated terms which guaranteed
financial security and jobs for Pratt and him, which Rockefeller accepted.
Charles Pratt and Company (including _Astral Oil_ ) became one of the
important former independent refiners to join Rockefeller's organization,[
_citation needed_ ] and Charles Pratt and Company (including Astral Oil)
became part of Standard Oil Trust in 1874.[6] However, the fact that Astral
Oil was a New York branch of Standard Oil in Ohio was not made public until
1892.[7] When the Rockefellers absorbed the Pratt interests in 1874,[3] Pratt
and Rockefeller in 1874 began to buy competing refineries in Brooklyn under
the Pratt name.[7] They succeeded in driving a number of smaller firms out of
business.[7] Around this time, the coopers’ union opposed Pratt’s efforts to
cut back on certain manual operations, as they were the craftsmen who made the
barrels that held the oil. Pratt busted the union, and his strategies for
breaking up the organization were adopted by other refineries.[7]

### Later ventures[edit]

Astral Oil suffered several fires in the 1870s and 1880s. On January 26, 1873,
Pratt’s Astral Oil-works in Williamsburg caught fire.[8][9] At the time, about
250 boys and adult men were employed by Pratt. No deaths were reported with
the fire.[8] There was also a December 21, 1884 fire at the Brooklyn Astral
refinery.[10] According to Pratt, much of the damages were insured.[11]

Although the merger with Rockefeller made Pratt a wealthy man, as a member of
the board of directors of Standard Oil, he maintained his independence and
frequently criticized Rockefeller. With Pratt's death in 1891, Rockefeller's
position as the most powerful man in the oil industry, already well
established, became unassailable.[ _citation needed_ ] His family became
involved with his business ventures and with Standard Oil, and Pratt's eldest
son, Charles Millard Pratt (1855–1935), became Secretary of Standard Oil. In
1923 his son Herbert Lee Pratt rose to become head of Standard Oil of New
York.[ _citation needed_ ]

## Philanthropy[edit]

Charles Pratt is credited with recognizing the growing need for trained
industrial workers in a changing economy. In 1886, he founded and endowed the
Pratt Institute, which opened in Clinton Hill, Brooklyn in 1887. Originally a
technical institute, it has become a renowned art, design and architectural
college. In 1910, Pratt also endowed the construction of the Pratt School of
Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering, at the Massachusetts Institute of
Technology.[12]

## Personal life[edit]

Pratt's city home in Brooklyn, built 1874-75

Pratt worked first in Boston, then moved to New York in 1850–1851. Soon after
getting established in New York, in 1854 he married Lydia Ann Richardson
(1835–1861). They had two children: Charles Millard Pratt (1855–1935) and
Lydia Richardson Pratt (1857–1904) (who married Frank Lusk Babbott).[
_citation needed_ ] After his wife Lydia's early death in 1861, Pratt married
her younger sister Mary Helen Richardson in September 1863. They had six
children together: Frederic B. Pratt (1865–1945), Helen Pratt (1867–1949),
George Dupont Pratt (1869–1935), Herbert L. Pratt (1871–1945), John Teele
Pratt (1873–1927), and Harold I. Pratt (1877–1939).[ _citation needed_ ]

Pratt moved to a country home in Glen Cove, New York, about 1890. To provide
for his children, he purchased large tracts of land surrounding his estate,
totaling 1,100 acres (4.5 km²). He died the next year, aged 60, in New York
City.[ _citation needed_ ]

Other notable Pratt descendants include:

  * Andy Pratt (born 1947 in Boston), a great-grandson whose father Edwin H Baker Pratt was headmaster of the school Buckingham Browne & Nichols, is a singer-songwriter[13]
  * Sherman Pratt (1900-1964), grandson of Charles Pratt and son of George Dupont Pratt. Founder of Marineland of Florida
  * Richardson J. Pratt 'Jerry' (1923-2001), great-grandson Charles Pratt and grandson of Charles Millard Pratt. Was President of Pratt Institute (1972-1990)[14]
  * Suzanna Love (1950-), great-granddaughter of Charles Pratt and granddaughter John Teele Pratt. Former actress

## Legacy and honors[edit]

### Long Island mansions[edit]

After his death, Charles Pratt's six sons and two daughters later built their
own family estates in Glen Cove. As of 2004, most of the extant Pratt family
Gold Coast Mansions are still in use:

  * Welwyn, originally the home of Harold I. Pratt, is owned by and operated as the Welwyn Preserve, a Nassau County park. The mansion is now the Holocaust Memorial and Tolerance Center of Nassau County.[15]
  * The Braes, originally owned by Herbert L. Pratt, is now the Webb Institute of Naval Architecture and Marine Engineering.
  * The Manor House, built for John Teele Pratt, is now the Glen Cove Mansion Hotel & Conference Center.
  * Poplar Hill, the Frederic B. Pratt house, is now the Glengariff Healthcare Center, housing both Glengariff, a long-term nursing care facility and the Pratt Pavilion for Nursing and Rehabilitation, a state-of-the-art, short-term, sub-acute rehabilitation center.
  * Killenworth, originally the house of George Dupont Pratt, has, since the mid-20th century, been the country retreat for the Russian Delegation to the United Nations.

### Pratt Cemetery[edit]

With so many Pratt family members in Glen Cove, they had a cemetery built for
themselves on their property. Known as "Pratt Cemetery", behind ornate gates
and up a winding drive stands a pink granite Romanesque mausoleum designed by
William Tubby, as well as a crypt and a tower connected by a "bridge of
sighs". Charles Pratt is interred in a sarcophagus here, as are seven out of
his eight children, and many of his grandchildren.[16]

### Pratt, West Virginia[edit]

The town of Pratt, West Virginia (previously known as Clinton) was renamed
Pratt in 1905, after the owner of the Charles Pratt Coal Company.[ _citation
needed_ ][17]

### Steamship tanker S.S. _Charles Pratt_ [edit]

In March 1916, Newport News Shipbuilding and Dry Dock Company launched the
S.S. _Charles Pratt_ , a tanker of 8,807 tons with a capacity of 119,410
barrels (18,985 m3) of oil. It became the first ship of the _Pratt_ class, and
was joined by the S.S. _H.H. Rogers_ in May, 1916. [ _citation needed_ ]

After 1939, both ships were operated by Panama Transport Co., a subsidiary of
Standard Oil of New Jersey. At the beginning of World War II, on December 21,
1940, the S.S. _Charles Pratt_ was torpedoed and sunk by a German U-boat in
the Indian Ocean 220 miles (350 km) off the coast of Africa while _en route_
from Aruba to Freetown, Sierra Leone. Of the American crew of 42, only two men
died. [ _citation needed_ ]

## See also[edit]

  * Biography portal

  * Henry H. Rogers
  * Standard Oil
  * Pratt Institute
  * Ida M. Tarbell

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Obituary Charles Pratt". _Watertown Daily TImes_ : 4. May 6, 1891. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Brooklyn Pratt Works 1939 WPA Guide to New York City
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Dual Personality of Henry H. Rogers; A Man of Steel and a Fighter in Business; Gentle, Genial, and Lovable Away from It. Newsboy to Oil Magnate - His Vast Interests in Oil, Railroads, Coppers, and Gas, and His Many Battles in Finance". _The New York Times_. New York City, New York, United States. May 20, 1909. Retrieved  August 15, 2017. 
  4. **^** Elbert Hubbard, _Little Journeys to the Homes of the Great, Vol. 11, Great Businessmen_, Roycoft, 1909, at Project Gutenberg, online books at University of Pennsylvania, accessed 25 February 2012
  5. **^** "The Brooklyn Oil Spill: A Timeline". _Mother Jones_. September 14, 2007. Retrieved  August 14, 2017. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _The Federal Reporter, Volume 27_. West Publishing Company. 1886. p. 498.  
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ M. Snyder-Grenier, Ellen (2004). _Brooklyn!: An Illustrated History_. Temple University Press. p. 154\. ISBN 9781592130825.  
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "GREAT OIL FIRE.; Total Destruction of Pratt's Astral Oil- Works Loss Between $50,000 and $60,000. Another Account". _The New York Times_. New York City, New York, United States. January 27, 1873. Retrieved  May 13, 2017. 
  9. **^** "Minor topics". _The New York Times_. New York City, New York, United States. January 28, 1873. Retrieved  May 13, 2017. 
  10. **^** "Oil Tanks in Flames; Blazing Uncontrolled for Fourteen Hours. The Firemen Powerless to Check the Conflagration - Property Worth Over $2,000,000 Destroyed". _The New York Times_. New York City, New York, United States. December 22, 1884. Retrieved  May 13, 2017. 
  11. **^** "The Fire in the Oil Works; Valuable Plan Saved, and the Loss Not So Great as at First Stated". _The New York Times_. New York City, New York, United States. December 23, 1884. Retrieved  May 13, 2017. 
  12. **^** "MIT History, Department of Ocean Engineering". Institute Archives, MIT Libraries. Retrieved  14 May 2017. 
  13. **^** Andy Pratt.com Archived September 1, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.
  14. **^** "Richardson Pratt Jr., 78; Led Pratt Institute". _NY Times_. May 5, 2001. Retrieved  19 December 2017. 
  15. **^** "Welwyn Preserve County Park". _nynjtc.org_. New York-New Jersey Trail Conference. Retrieved  1 February 2014. 
  16. **^** "Pratt Family Homes". Retrieved  5 May 2013. 
  17. **^** "A Brief History of Pratt, WV 1781–1913". Retrieved  5 May 2013. 

  * Elbert Hubbard, 1909, _Little Journeys to the Homes of the Great, Vol. 11, Great Businessmen_, collected pieces originally published monthly in his magazine, volumes available at Project Gutenberg, at University of Pennsylvania
  * Tarbell, Ida M. 1904, _The History of Standard Oil_
  * "History of Glen Cove", Glen Cove, Long Island website
  * "Pratt Institute", Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) website
  * "History", Pratt Institute Official Website

##  External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Charles Pratt**_.  
---|---  
  
  * 1918 Biographical Sketch
  * Charles Pratt at Find a Grave

Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 57475273
  * LCCN: nr93016205
  * ISNI: 0000 0000 6683 1764
  * ULAN: 500033931
  * IATH: w6ws9wqd

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Charles_Pratt&oldid=816160213"

Categories:

  * 1830 births
  * 1891 deaths
  * 19th-century American businesspeople
  * American businesspeople in the oil industry
  * American philanthropists
  * Businesspeople from Massachusetts
  * Founders of the petroleum industry
  * People from Brooklyn
  * People from Glen Cove, New York
  * People from Watertown, Massachusetts
  * Pratt Institute
  * Standard Oil
  * Wilbraham & Monson Academy alumni
  * Charles Pratt family
  * People from Fairhaven, Massachusetts

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Articles with hCards
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017
  * Find a Grave template with ID same as Wikidata
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * 日本語
  * Norsk

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 19 December 2017, at 17:41.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

