

# Cognitive science

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from Cognitive sciences)

Jump to: navigation, search

For the journal, see Cognitive Science (journal).

Figure illustrating the fields that contributed to the birth of cognitive
science, including linguistics, neuroscience, artificial intelligence,
philosophy, anthropology, and psychology[1]

**Cognitive science** is the interdisciplinary, scientific study of the mind
and its processes.[2] It examines the nature, the tasks, and the functions of
cognition. Cognitive scientists study intelligence and behavior, with a focus
on how nervous systems represent, process, and transform information. Mental
faculties of concern to cognitive scientists include language, perception,
memory, attention, reasoning, and emotion; to understand these faculties,
cognitive scientists borrow from fields such as linguistics, psychology,
artificial intelligence, philosophy, neuroscience, and anthropology.[3] The
typical analysis of cognitive science spans many levels of organization, from
learning and decision to logic and planning; from neural circuitry to modular
brain organization. The fundamental concept of cognitive science is that
"thinking can best be understood in terms of representational structures in
the mind and computational procedures that operate on those structures."[3]

The cognitive sciences began as an intellectual movement in the 1950s often
referred to as the cognitive revolution.

## Contents

  * 1 Principles
    * 1.1 Levels of analysis
    * 1.2 Interdisciplinary nature
    * 1.3 _Cognitive_ science: the term
  * 2 Scope
    * 2.1 Artificial intelligence
    * 2.2 Attention
    * 2.3 Knowledge and processing of language
    * 2.4 Learning and development
    * 2.5 Memory
    * 2.6 Perception and action
    * 2.7 Consciousness
  * 3 Research methods
    * 3.1 Behavioral experiments
    * 3.2 Brain imaging
    * 3.3 Computational modeling
    * 3.4 Neurobiological methods
  * 4 Key findings
  * 5 History
  * 6 Notable researchers
  * 7 See also
  * 8 References
  * 9 External links

## Principles[edit]

### Levels of analysis[edit]

A central tenet of cognitive science is that a complete understanding of the
mind/brain cannot be attained by studying only a single level. An example
would be the problem of remembering a phone number and recalling it later. One
approach to understanding this process would be to study behavior through
direct observation, or naturalistic observation. A person could be presented
with a phone number and be asked to recall it after some delay of time. Then,
the accuracy of the response could be measured. Another approach to measure
cognitive ability would be to study the firings of individual neurons while a
person is trying to remember the phone number. Neither of these experiments on
its own would fully explain how the process of remembering a phone number
works. Even if the technology to map out every neuron in the brain in real-
time were available, and it were known when each neuron was firing, it would
still be impossible to know how a particular firing of neurons translates into
the observed behavior. Thus, an understanding of how these two levels relate
to each other is imperative. _The Embodied Mind: Cognitive Science and Human
Experience_ says, “the new sciences of the mind need to enlarge their horizon
to encompass both lived human experience and the possibilities for
transformation inherent in human experience.”[4] This can be provided by a
functional level account of the process. Studying a particular phenomenon from
multiple levels creates a better understanding of the processes that occur in
the brain to give rise to a particular behavior. Marr[5] gave a famous
description of three levels of analysis:

  1. the _computational theory_ , specifying the goals of the computation;
  2. _representation and algorithms_ , giving a representation of the inputs and outputs and the algorithms which transform one into the other; and
  3. the _hardware implementation_ , how algorithm and representation may be physically realized.

(See also the entry on functionalism.)

### Interdisciplinary nature[edit]

Cognitive science is an interdisciplinary field with contributors from various
fields, including psychology, neuroscience, linguistics, philosophy of mind,
computer science, anthropology, sociology, and biology. Cognitive scientists
work collectively in hope of understanding the mind and its interactions with
the surrounding world much like other sciences do. The field regards itself as
compatible with the physical sciences and uses the scientific method as well
as simulation or modeling, often comparing the output of models with aspects
of human cognition. Similarly to the field of psychology, there is some doubt
whether there is a unified cognitive science, which have led some researchers
to prefer 'cognitive sciences' in plural.[6][7]

Many, but not all, who consider themselves cognitive scientists hold a
functionalist view of the mind—the view that mental states and processes
should be explained by their function - what they do. According to the
multiple realizability account of functionalism, even non-human systems such
as robots and computers can be ascribed as having cognition.

### _Cognitive_ science: the term [edit]

The term "cognitive" in "cognitive science" is used for "any kind of mental
operation or structure that can be studied in precise terms" (Lakoff and
Johnson, 1999). This conceptualization is very broad, and should not be
confused with how "cognitive" is used in some traditions of analytic
philosophy, where "cognitive" has to do only with formal rules and truth
conditional semantics.

The earliest entries for the word " _cognitive_ " in the OED take it to mean
roughly _"pertaining to the action or process of knowing"_. The first entry,
from 1586, shows the word was at one time used in the context of discussions
of Platonic theories of knowledge. Most in cognitive science, however,
presumably do not believe their field is the study of anything as certain as
the knowledge sought by Plato. [ _citation needed_ ]

## Scope[edit]

Cognitive science is a large field, and covers a wide array of topics on
cognition. However, it should be recognized that cognitive science has not
always been equally concerned with every topic that might bear relevance to
the nature and operation of minds. Among philosophers, classical cognitivists
have largely de-emphasized or avoided social and cultural factors, emotion,
consciousness, animal cognition, and comparative and evolutionary
psychologies. However, with the decline of behaviorism, internal states such
as affects and emotions, as well as awareness and covert attention became
approachable again. For example, situated and embodied cognition theories take
into account the current state of the environment as well as the role of the
body in cognition. With the newfound emphasis on information processing,
observable behavior was no longer the hallmark of psychological theory, but
the modelling or recording of mental states.

Below are some of the main topics that cognitive science is concerned with.
This is not an exhaustive list. See List of cognitive science topics for a
list of various aspects of the field.

### Artificial intelligence[edit]

Main articles: Artificial intelligence and Outline of artificial intelligence

_"... One major contribution of AI and cognitive science to psychology has
been the information processing model of human thinking in which the metaphor
of brain-as-computer is taken quite literally._ ." _AAAI Web pages._

Artificial intelligence (AI) involves the study of cognitive phenomena in
machines. One of the practical goals of AI is to implement aspects of human
intelligence in computers. Computers are also widely used as a tool with which
to study cognitive phenomena. Computational modeling uses simulations to study
how human intelligence may be structured.[8] (See the section on computational
modeling in the Research Methods section.)

There is some debate in the field as to whether the mind is best viewed as a
huge array of small but individually feeble elements (i.e. neurons), or as a
collection of higher-level structures such as symbols, schemes, plans, and
rules. The former view uses connectionism to study the mind, whereas the
latter emphasizes symbolic computations. One way to view the issue is whether
it is possible to accurately simulate a human brain on a computer without
accurately simulating the neurons that make up the human brain.

### Attention[edit]

Main article: Attention

Attention is the selection of important information. The human mind is
bombarded with millions of stimuli and it must have a way of deciding which of
this information to process. Attention is sometimes seen as a spotlight,
meaning one can only shine the light on a particular set of information.
Experiments that support this metaphor include the dichotic listening task
(Cherry, 1957) and studies of inattentional blindness (Mack and Rock, 1998).
In the dichotic listening task, subjects are bombarded with two different
messages, one in each ear, and told to focus on only one of the messages. At
the end of the experiment, when asked about the content of the unattended
message, subjects cannot report it.

### Knowledge and processing of language[edit]

A well known example of a Phrase structure tree. This is one way of
representing human language that shows how different components are organized
hierarchically.

Main articles: Theoretical linguistics, Cognitive linguistics, Language,
Linguistics, and Psycholinguistics

The ability to learn and understand language is an extremely complex process.
Language is acquired within the first few years of life, and all humans under
normal circumstances are able to acquire language proficiently. A major
driving force in the theoretical linguistic field is discovering the nature
that language must have in the abstract in order to be learned in such a
fashion. Some of the driving research questions in studying how the brain
itself processes language include: (1) To what extent is linguistic knowledge
innate or learned?, (2) Why is it more difficult for adults to acquire a
second-language than it is for infants to acquire their first-language?, and
(3) How are humans able to understand novel sentences?

The study of language processing ranges from the investigation of the sound
patterns of speech to the meaning of words and whole sentences. Linguistics
often divides language processing into orthography, phonetics, phonology,
morphology, syntax, semantics, and pragmatics. Many aspects of language can be
studied from each of these components and from their interaction.

The study of language processing in _cognitive science_ is closely tied to the
field of linguistics. Linguistics was traditionally studied as a part of the
humanities, including studies of history, art and literature. In the last
fifty years or so, more and more researchers have studied knowledge and use of
language as a cognitive phenomenon, the main problems being how knowledge of
language can be acquired and used, and what precisely it consists of.[9]
Linguists have found that, while humans form sentences in ways apparently
governed by very complex systems, they are remarkably unaware of the rules
that govern their own speech. Thus linguists must resort to indirect methods
to determine what those rules might be, if indeed rules as such exist. In any
event, if speech is indeed governed by rules, they appear to be opaque to any
conscious consideration.

###  Learning and development[edit]

Main articles: Learning and Developmental psychology

Learning and development are the processes by which we acquire knowledge and
information over time. Infants are born with little or no knowledge (depending
on how knowledge is defined), yet they rapidly acquire the ability to use
language, walk, and recognize people and objects. Research in learning and
development aims to explain the mechanisms by which these processes might take
place.

A major question in the study of cognitive development is the extent to which
certain abilities are innate or learned. This is often framed in terms of the
nature and nurture debate. The nativist view emphasizes that certain features
are innate to an organism and are determined by its genetic endowment. The
empiricist view, on the other hand, emphasizes that certain abilities are
learned from the environment. Although clearly both genetic and environmental
input is needed for a child to develop normally, considerable debate remains
about _how_ genetic information might guide cognitive development. In the area
of language acquisition, for example, some (such as Steven Pinker)[10] have
argued that specific information containing universal grammatical rules must
be contained in the genes, whereas others (such as Jeffrey Elman and
colleagues in Rethinking Innateness) have argued that Pinker's claims are
biologically unrealistic. They argue that genes determine the architecture of
a learning system, but that specific "facts" about how grammar works can only
be learned as a result of experience.

###  Memory[edit]

Main article: Memory

Memory allows us to store information for later retrieval. Memory is often
thought of as consisting of both a long-term and short-term store. Long-term
memory allows us to store information over prolonged periods (days, weeks,
years). We do not yet know the practical limit of long-term memory capacity.
Short-term memory allows us to store information over short time scales
(seconds or minutes).

Memory is also often grouped into declarative and procedural forms.
Declarative memory—grouped into subsets of semantic and episodic forms of
memory—refers to our memory for facts and specific knowledge, specific
meanings, and specific experiences (e.g. "Who was the first president of the
U.S.A.?", or "What did I eat for breakfast four days ago?"). Procedural memory
allows us to remember actions and motor sequences (e.g. how to ride a bicycle)
and is often dubbed implicit knowledge or memory .

Cognitive scientists study memory just as psychologists do, but tend to focus
in more on how memory bears on cognitive processes, and the interrelationship
between cognition and memory. One example of this could be, what mental
processes does a person go through to retrieve a long-lost memory? Or, what
differentiates between the cognitive process of recognition (seeing hints of
something before remembering it, or memory in context) and recall (retrieving
a memory, as in "fill-in-the-blank")?

### Perception and action[edit]

The Necker cube, an example of an optical illusion

An optical illusion. The square A is exactly the same shade of gray as square
B. See checker shadow illusion.

Main article: Perception

Perception is the ability to take in information via the senses, and process
it in some way. Vision and hearing are two dominant senses that allow us to
perceive the environment. Some questions in the study of visual perception,
for example, include: (1) How are we able to recognize objects?, (2) Why do we
perceive a continuous visual environment, even though we only see small bits
of it at any one time? One tool for studying visual perception is by looking
at how people process optical illusions. The image on the right of a Necker
cube is an example of a bistable percept, that is, the cube can be interpreted
as being oriented in two different directions.

The study of haptic (tactile), olfactory, and gustatory stimuli also fall into
the domain of perception.

Action is taken to refer to the output of a system. In humans, this is
accomplished through motor responses. Spatial planning and movement, speech
production, and complex motor movements are all aspects of action.

### Consciousness[edit]

Main article: Consciousness

Consciousness is the awareness whether something is an external object or
something within oneself. This helps the mind having the ability to experience
or to feel a sense of self.

## Research methods[edit]

Many different methodologies are used to study cognitive science. As the field
is highly interdisciplinary, research often cuts across multiple areas of
study, drawing on research methods from psychology, neuroscience, computer
science and systems theory.

### Behavioral experiments[edit]

In order to have a description of what constitutes intelligent behavior, one
must study behavior itself. This type of research is closely tied to that in
cognitive psychology and psychophysics. By measuring behavioral responses to
different stimuli, one can understand something about how those stimuli are
processed. Lewandowski and Strohmetz (2009) review a collection of innovative
uses of behavioral measurement in psychology including behavioral traces,
behavioral observations, and behavioral choice.[11] Behavioral traces are
pieces of evidence that indicate behavior occurred, but the actor is not
present (e.g., litter in a parking lot or readings on an electric meter).
Behavioral observations involve the direct witnessing of the actor engaging in
the behavior (e.g., watching how close a person sits next to another person).
Behavioral choices are when a person selects between two or more options
(e.g., voting behavior, choice of a punishment for another participant).

  * _Reaction time._ The time between the presentation of a stimulus and an appropriate response can indicate differences between two cognitive processes, and can indicate some things about their nature. For example, if in a search task the reaction times vary proportionally with the number of elements, then it is evident that this cognitive process of searching involves serial instead of parallel processing.
  * _Psychophysical responses._ Psychophysical experiments are an old psychological technique, which has been adopted by cognitive psychology. They typically involve making judgments of some physical property, e.g. the loudness of a sound. Correlation of subjective scales between individuals can show cognitive or sensory biases as compared to actual physical measurements. Some examples include: 
    * sameness judgments for colors, tones, textures, etc.
    * threshold differences for colors, tones, textures, etc.
  * _Eye tracking._ This methodology is used to study a variety of cognitive processes, most notably visual perception and language processing. The fixation point of the eyes is linked to an individual's focus of attention. Thus, by monitoring eye movements, we can study what information is being processed at a given time. Eye tracking allows us to study cognitive processes on extremely short time scales. Eye movements reflect online decision making during a task, and they provide us with some insight into the ways in which those decisions may be processed.

###  Brain imaging[edit]

Main article: Neuroimaging

Image of the human head with the brain. The arrow indicates the position of
the hypothalamus.

Brain imaging involves analyzing activity within the brain while performing
various tasks. This allows us to link behavior and brain function to help
understand how information is processed. Different types of imaging techniques
vary in their temporal (time-based) and spatial (location-based) resolution.
Brain imaging is often used in cognitive neuroscience.

  * _Single photon emission computed tomography_ and _Positron emission tomography_. SPECT and PET use radioactive isotopes, which are injected into the subject's bloodstream and taken up by the brain. By observing which areas of the brain take up the radioactive isotope, we can see which areas of the brain are more active than other areas. PET has similar spatial resolution to fMRI, but it has extremely poor temporal resolution.
  * _Electroencephalography_. EEG measures the electrical fields generated by large populations of neurons in the cortex by placing a series of electrodes on the scalp of the subject. This technique has an extremely high temporal resolution, but a relatively poor spatial resolution.
  * _Functional magnetic resonance imaging_. fMRI measures the relative amount of oxygenated blood flowing to different parts of the brain. More oxygenated blood in a particular region is assumed to correlate with an increase in neural activity in that part of the brain. This allows us to localize particular functions within different brain regions. fMRI has moderate spatial and temporal resolution.
  * _Optical imaging_. This technique uses infrared transmitters and receivers to measure the amount of light reflectance by blood near different areas of the brain. Since oxygenated and deoxygenated blood reflects light by different amounts, we can study which areas are more active (i.e., those that have more oxygenated blood). Optical imaging has moderate temporal resolution, but poor spatial resolution. It also has the advantage that it is extremely safe and can be used to study infants' brains.
  * _Magnetoencephalography._ MEG measures magnetic fields resulting from cortical activity. It is similar to EEG, except that it has improved spatial resolution since the magnetic fields it measures are not as blurred or attenuated by the scalp, meninges and so forth as the electrical activity measured in EEG is. MEG uses SQUID sensors to detect tiny magnetic fields.

###  Computational modeling[edit]

A neural network with two layers.

Computational models require a mathematically and logically formal
representation of a problem. Computer models are used in the simulation and
experimental verification of different specific and general properties of
intelligence. Computational modeling can help us understand the functional
organization of a particular cognitive phenomenon. There are two basic
approaches to cognitive modeling. The first is focused on abstract mental
functions of an intelligent mind and operates using symbols, and the second,
which follows the neural and associative properties of the human brain, is
called subsymbolic.

  * _Symbolic modeling_ evolved from the computer science paradigms using the technologies of Knowledge-based systems, as well as a philosophical perspective, see for example "Good Old-Fashioned Artificial Intelligence" (GOFAI). They are developed by the first cognitive researchers and later used in information engineering for expert systems . Since the early 1990s it was generalized in systemics for the investigation of functional human-like intelligence models, such as personoids, and, in parallel, developed as the SOAR environment. Recently, especially in the context of cognitive decision making, symbolic cognitive modeling is extended to socio-cognitive approach including social and organization cognition interrelated with a sub-symbolic not conscious layer.
  * _Subsymbolic modeling_ includes _Connectionist/neural network models._ Connectionism relies on the idea that the mind/brain is composed of simple nodes and that the power of the system comes primarily from the existence and manner of connections between the simple nodes. Neural nets are textbook implementations of this approach. Some critics of this approach feel that while these models approach biological reality as a representation of how the system works, they lack explanatory powers because complicated systems of connections with even simple rules are extremely complex and often less interpretable than the system they model.

Other approaches gaining in popularity include the use of dynamical systems
theory and also techniques putting symbolic models and connectionist models
into correspondence (Neural-symbolic integration). Bayesian models, often
drawn from machine learning, are also gaining popularity[12].

All the above approaches tend to be generalized to the form of integrated
computational models of a synthetic/abstract intelligence, in order to be
applied to the explanation and improvement of individual and
social/organizational decision-making and reasoning.

### Neurobiological methods[edit]

Research methods borrowed directly from neuroscience and neuropsychology can
also help us to understand aspects of intelligence. These methods allow us to
understand how intelligent behavior is implemented in a physical system.

  * Single-unit recording
  * Direct brain stimulation
  * Animal models
  * Postmortem studies

## Key findings[edit]

Cognitive science has given rise to models of human cognitive bias and risk
perception, and has been influential in the development of behavioral finance,
part of economics. It has also given rise to a new theory of the philosophy of
mathematics, and many theories of artificial intelligence, persuasion and
coercion. It has made its presence known in the philosophy of language and
epistemology as well as constituting a substantial wing of modern linguistics.
Fields of cognitive science have been influential in understanding the brain's
particular functional systems (and functional deficits) ranging from speech
production to auditory processing and visual perception. It has made progress
in understanding how damage to particular areas of the brain affect cognition,
and it has helped to uncover the root causes and results of specific
dysfunction, such as dyslexia, anopia, and hemispatial neglect.

## History[edit]

The cognitive sciences began as an intellectual movement in the 1950s, called
the cognitive revolution. Cognitive science has a prehistory traceable back to
ancient Greek philosophical texts (see Plato's Meno and Aristotle's De Anima);
and includes writers such as Descartes, David Hume, Immanuel Kant, Benedict de
Spinoza, Nicolas Malebranche, Pierre Cabanis, Leibniz and John Locke. However,
although these early writers contributed greatly to the philosophical
discovery of mind and this would ultimately lead to the development of
psychology, they were working with an entirely different set of tools and core
concepts than those of the cognitive scientist.

The modern culture of cognitive science can be traced back to the early
cyberneticists in the 1930s and 1940s, such as Warren McCulloch and Walter
Pitts, who sought to understand the organizing principles of the mind.
McCulloch and Pitts developed the first variants of what are now known as
artificial neural networks, models of computation inspired by the structure of
biological neural networks.

Another precursor was the early development of the theory of computation and
the digital computer in the 1940s and 1950s. Alan Turing and John von Neumann
were instrumental in these developments. The modern computer, or Von Neumann
machine, would play a central role in cognitive science, both as a metaphor
for the mind, and as a tool for investigation.

The first instance of cognitive science experiments being done at an academic
institution took place at MIT Sloan School of Management, established by
J.C.R. Licklider working within the social psychology department and
conducting experiments using computer memory as models for human
cognition.[13]

In 1959, Noam Chomsky published a scathing review of B. F. Skinner's book
_Verbal Behavior_. At the time, Skinner's behaviorist paradigm dominated
psychology. Most psychologists focused on functional relations between
stimulus and response, without positing internal representations. Chomsky
argued that in order to explain language, we needed a theory like generative
grammar, which not only attributed internal representations but characterized
their underlying order.

The term _cognitive science_ was coined by Christopher Longuet-Higgins in his
1973 commentary on the Lighthill report, which concerned the then-current
state of Artificial Intelligence research.[14] In the same decade, the journal
_Cognitive Science_ and the Cognitive Science Society were founded.[15] The
founding meeting of the Cognitive Science Society was held at the University
of California, San Diego in 1979, which resulted in cognitive science becoming
an internationally visible enterprise.[16] In 1972, Hampshire College started
the first undergraduate education program in Cognitive Science, led by Neil
Stillings. In 1982, with assistance from Professor Stillings, Vassar College
became the first institution in the world to grant an undergraduate degree in
Cognitive Science.[17] In 1986, the first Cognitive Science Department in the
world was founded at the University of California, San Diego.[16]

In the 1970s and early 1980s, much cognitive science research focused on the
possibility of artificial intelligence. Researchers such as Marvin Minsky
would write computer programs in languages such as LISP to attempt to formally
characterize the steps that human beings went through, for instance, in making
decisions and solving problems, in the hope of better understanding human
thought, and also in the hope of creating artificial minds. This approach is
known as "symbolic AI".

Eventually the limits of the symbolic AI research program became apparent. For
instance, it seemed to be unrealistic to comprehensively list human knowledge
in a form usable by a symbolic computer program. The late 80s and 90s saw the
rise of neural networks and connectionism as a research paradigm. Under this
point of view, often attributed to James McClelland and David Rumelhart, the
mind could be characterized as a set of complex associations, represented as a
layered network. Critics argue that there are some phenomena which are better
captured by symbolic models, and that connectionist models are often so
complex as to have little explanatory power. Recently symbolic and
connectionist models have been combined, making it possible to take advantage
of both forms of explanation.[18]

## Notable researchers[edit]

|

This section **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(August 2012)_ _(Learn how and when
to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
See also: List of cognitive scientists

Name | Year of Birth | Year of Contribution | Contribution(s)  
---|---|---|---  
Daniel Dennett | 1942[19] | 1987 | computational systems perspective  
John Searle | 1932[20] | 1980 | Chinese room  
Jerry Fodor | 1935[21] | 1968, 1975 | functionalism  
David Chalmers | 1966[22] | 1995[23] | Dualism, Hard problem of consciousness  
Douglas Hofstadter | 1945 | 1979[24] | _Gödel, Escher, Bach_[25]  
Marvin Minsky | 1927[26] | 1970s, early 1980s | Write computer programs in
languages such as LISP to attempt to formally characterize the steps that
human beings go through, such as making decisions and solving problems  
Christopher Longuet-Higgins | 1923[27] | 1973 | Coined the term _cognitive
science_  
McCulloch |  | 1930s-1940s | Developed first variants of artificial neural
networks  
Pitts |  | 1930s-1940s | Developed first variants of artificial neural
networks  
Alan Turing | 1912[28] | 1940s-1950s | Early development of the theory of
computation and the digital computer  
John von Neumann | 1903[29] | 1940s-1950s | Early development of the theory of
computation and the digital computer  
J.C.R. Licklider | 1915[30] |  | Established MIT Sloan School of Management  
Noam Chomsky | 1928[31] | 1959 | Published a review of B.F. Skinner's book
_Verbal Behavior_  
  
Some of the more recognized names in cognitive science are usually either the
most controversial or the most cited. Within philosophy, some familiar names
include Daniel Dennett, who writes from a computational systems
perspective,[32] John Searle, known for his controversial Chinese room
argument, [33] and Jerry Fodor, who advocates functionalism.[34]

Others include David Chalmers, who advocates Dualism and is also known for
articulating the hard problem of consciousness, and Douglas Hofstadter, famous
for writing _Gödel, Escher, Bach_ , which questions the nature of words and
thought.

In the realm of linguistics, Noam Chomsky and George Lakoff have been
influential (both have also become notable as political commentators), and in
artificial intelligence, Marvin Minsky, Herbert A. Simon, Allen Newell, and
Kevin Warwick are prominent.

Popular names in the discipline of psychology include George A. Miller, James
McClelland, Philip Johnson-Laird, John O'Keefe, and Steven Pinker.
Anthropologists Dan Sperber, Edwin Hutchins, Scott Atran, Pascal Boyer,
Michael Posner, and Joseph Henrich have been involved in collaborative
projects with cognitive and social psychologists, political scientists and
evolutionary biologists in attempts to develop general theories of culture
formation, religion, and political association.

Other contributions have been made by Marvin Minsky, Christopher Longuet-
Higgins, Alan Turing, John von Neumann, J.C.R. Licklider, and Noam Chomsky.

## See also[edit]

  * Affective science
  * Cognitive anthropology
  * Cognitive biology
  * Cognitive linguistics
  * Cognitive neuropsychology
  * Cognitive neuroscience
  * Cognitive psychology
  * Cognitive science of religion
  * Computational neuroscience
  * Computational-representational understanding of mind
  * Concept Mining
  * Decision field theory
  * Decision theory
  * Dynamicism
  * Educational neuroscience
  * Educational psychology
  * Embodied cognition
  * Embodied cognitive science
  * Enactivism
  * Epistemology
  * Heterophenomenology
  * Human Cognome Project
  * Human-Computer Interaction
  * Indiana Archives of Cognitive Science
  * Informatics (academic field)
  * List of cognitive scientists
  * List of institutions granting degrees in cognitive science
  * Malleable intelligence
  * Neural Darwinism
  * Noogenesis
  * Personal information management (PIM)
  * Quantum Cognition
  * Simulated consciousness
  * Situated cognition
  * Society of Mind theory
  * Spatial Cognition
  * Speech-Language Pathology

  * Mind and Brain portal
  * Thinking portal

Outlines

  * Outline of human intelligence \- topic tree presenting the traits, capacities, models, and research fields of human intelligence, and more.
  * Outline of thought \- topic tree that identifies many types of thoughts, types of thinking, aspects of thought, related fields, and more.

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Adapted from Miller, George A (2003). "The cognitive revolution: a historical perspective". _Trends in Cognitive Sciences_ **7**.
  2. **^** Cognitive science is an interdisciplinary field of researchers from Linguistics, psychology, neuroscience, philosophy, computer science, and anthropology that seek to understand the mind. How We Learn: Ask the Cognitive Scientist
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Thagard, Paul, Cognitive Science, _The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy_ (Fall 2008 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.).
  4. **^** Varela, F. J., Thompson, E., & Rosch, E. (1991). The embodied mind: cognitive science and human experience. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press.
  5. **^** Marr, D. (1982). _Vision: A Computational Investigation into the Human Representation and Processing of Visual Information_. W. H. Freeman.
  6. **^** Miller, G. A. (2003). "The cognitive revolution: a historical perspective". _Trends in Cognitive Sciences_. **7** : 141–144. doi:10.1016/S1364-6613(03)00029-9. PMID 12639696. 
  7. **^** Ferrés, Joan; Masanet, Maria-Jose (2017). "Communication Efficiency in Education: Increasing Emotions and Storytelling". _Comunicar_ (in Spanish). **25** (52): 51–60. doi:10.3916/c52-2017-05. ISSN 1134-3478.  
  8. **^** Sun, Ron (ed.) (2008). The Cambridge Handbook of Computational Psychology. Cambridge University Press, New York.
  9. **^** Isac, Daniela; Charles Reiss (2013). _I-language: An Introduction to Linguistics as Cognitive Science, 2nd edition_. Oxford University Press. p. 5\. ISBN 978-0199660179.  
  10. **^** Pinker S., Bloom P. (1990). "Natural language and natural selection". _Behavioral and Brain Sciences_. **13** (4): 707–784. CiteSeerX 10.1.1.116.4044 . doi:10.1017/S0140525X00081061.  
  11. **^** Lewandowski, Gary; Strohmetz, David (2009). "Actions can speak as loud as words: Measuring behavior in psychological science". _Social and Personality Psychology Compass_. **3** (6): 992–1002. doi:10.1111/j.1751-9004.2009.00229.  
  12. **^** Chater Nick, Oaksford Mike, Hahn Ulrike, Heit Evan. Bayesian models of cognition. WIREs Cogn Sci 2010, 1: 811-823. doi: 10.1002/wcs.79
  13. **^** Hafner, K., & Lyon, M. (1996). Where wizards stay up late: The origins of the Internet. New York: Simon & Schuster., page 32
  14. **^** Longuet-Higgins, H. C. (1973). "Comments on the Lighthill Report and the Sutherland Reply", in _Artificial Intelligence: a paper symposium_ , Science Research Council, 35-37
  15. **^** Cognitive Science Society Archived 17 July 2010 at the Wayback Machine.
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "UCSD Cognitive Science - UCSD Cognitive Science". Retrieved  8 July 2015. 
  17. **^** Box 729. "About - Cognitive Science - Vassar College". Cogsci.vassar.edu. Retrieved 2012-08-15. 
  18. **^** Artur S. d'Avila Garcez, Luis C. Lamb and Dov M. Gabbay. Neural-Symbolic Cognitive Reasoning. Cognitive Technologies. Springer, 2008, ISBN 978-3-540-73245-7, 2008.
  19. **^** "Daniel C. Dennett | American philosopher". _Encyclopedia Britannica_. Retrieved  2017-05-03. 
  20. **^** "John Searle". _www.informationphilosopher.com_. Retrieved  2017-05-03. 
  21. **^** "Fodor, Jerry | Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy". _www.iep.utm.edu_. Retrieved  2017-05-03. 
  22. **^** "David Chalmers". _www.informationphilosopher.com_. Retrieved  2017-04-24. 
  23. **^** "Facing Up to the Problem of Consciousness". _consc.net_. Retrieved  2017-04-24. 
  24. **^** "Gödel, Escher, Bach". _Goodreads_. Retrieved  2017-05-03. 
  25. **^** Somers, James. "The Man Who Would Teach Machines to Think". _The Atlantic_. Retrieved  2017-05-03. 
  26. **^** "Marvin Minsky | American scientist". _Encyclopedia Britannica_. Retrieved  2017-03-27. 
  27. **^** Darwin, Chris (2004-06-09). "Christopher Longuet-Higgins". _The Guardian_. ISSN 0261-3077. Retrieved  2017-03-27. 
  28. **^** Hodges, Andrew. "Alan Turing: The Enigma". _www.turing.org.uk_.   Missing or empty `|url=` (help); `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  29. **^** "John von Neumann | Biography, Accomplishments, & Inventions". _Encyclopedia Britannica_. Retrieved  2017-04-24. 
  30. **^** "J.C.R. Licklider | Internet Hall of Fame". _internethalloffame.org_. Retrieved  2017-04-24. 
  31. **^** "Noam Chomsky". _chomsky.info_. Retrieved  2017-04-24. 
  32. **^** Rescorla, Michael (2017-01-01). Zalta, Edward N., ed. _The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy_ (Spring 2017 ed.). Metaphysics Research Lab, Stanford University.  
  33. **^** Hauser, Larry. "Chinese Room Argument". _Internet Enclclopedia of Philosophy_.  
  34. **^** "Fodor, Jerry | Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy". _www.iep.utm.edu_. Retrieved  2017-03-27. 

  * John Turri (2016). _Knowledge and the Norm of Assertion_. Open Book Publishers.   A **free** textbook for download.

##  External links[edit]

| Wikiversity has learning resources about _**Cognitive science**_  
---|---  
  
  * Media related to Cognitive science at Wikimedia Commons
  * Quotations related to Cognitive science at Wikiquote
  * Cognitive Science Society
  * Cognitive Science Movie Index: A broad list of movies showcasing themes in the Cognitive Sciences
  * List of leading thinkers in cognitive science
  * Dr. Carl Stahmer's history page at the University of Santa Barbara

  * v
  * t
  * e

Major fields of computer science  
  
---  
  
Note: This template roughly follows the 2012 ACM Computing Classification
System.  
  
Hardware |

  * Printed circuit board
  * Peripheral
  * Integrated circuit
  * Very-large-scale integration
  * Energy consumption
  * Electronic design automation

  
  
Computer systems  
organization |

  * Computer architecture
  * Embedded system
  * Real-time computing
  * Dependability

  
  
Networks |

  * Network architecture
  * Network protocol
  * Network components
  * Network scheduler
  * Network performance evaluation
  * Network service

  
  
Software organization |

  * Interpreter
  * Middleware
  * Virtual machine
  * Operating system
  * Software quality

  
  
Software notations  
and tools |

  * Programming paradigm
  * Programming language
  * Compiler
  * Domain-specific language
  * Modeling language
  * Software framework
  * Integrated development environment
  * Software configuration management
  * Software library
  * Software repository

  
  
Software development |

  * Software development process
  * Requirements analysis
  * Software design
  * Software construction
  * Software deployment
  * Software maintenance
  * Programming team
  * Open-source model

  
  
Theory of computation |

  * Model of computation
  * Formal language
  * Automata theory
  * Computational complexity theory
  * Logic
  * Semantics

  
  
Algorithms |

  * Algorithm design
  * Analysis of algorithms
  * Randomized algorithm
  * Computational geometry

  
  
Mathematics  
of computing |

  * Discrete mathematics
  * Probability
  * Statistics
  * Mathematical software
  * Information theory
  * Mathematical analysis
  * Numerical analysis

  
  
Information  
systems |

  * Database management system
  * Information storage systems
  * Enterprise information system
  * Social information systems
  * Geographic information system
  * Decision support system
  * Process control system
  * Multimedia information system
  * Data mining
  * Digital library
  * Computing platform
  * Digital marketing
  * World Wide Web
  * Information retrieval

  
  
Security |

  * Cryptography
  * Formal methods
  * Security services
  * Intrusion detection system
  * Hardware security
  * Network security
  * Information security
  * Application security

  
  
Human–computer  
interaction |

  * Interaction design
  * Social computing
  * Ubiquitous computing
  * Visualization
  * Accessibility

  
  
Concurrency |

  * Concurrent computing
  * Parallel computing
  * Distributed computing
  * Multithreading
  * Multiprocessing

  
  
Artificial  
intelligence |

  * Natural language processing
  * Knowledge representation and reasoning
  * Computer vision
  * Automated planning and scheduling
  * Search methodology
  * Control method
  * Philosophy of artificial intelligence
  * Distributed artificial intelligence

  
  
Machine learning |

  * Supervised learning
  * Unsupervised learning
  * Reinforcement learning
  * Multi-task learning
  * Cross-validation

  
  
Graphics |

  * Animation
  * Rendering
  * Image manipulation
  * Graphics processing unit
  * Mixed reality
  * Virtual reality
  * Image compression
  * Solid modeling

  
  
Applied  
computing |

  * E-commerce
  * Enterprise software
  * Computational mathematics
  * Computational physics
  * Computational chemistry
  * Computational biology
  * Computational social science
  * Computational engineering
  * Computational healthcare
  * Digital art
  * Electronic publishing
  * Cyberwarfare
  * Electronic voting
  * Video game
  * Word processing
  * Operations research
  * Educational technology
  * Document management

  
  
  * **Book**
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**
  * **WikiProject**
  * **Commons**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Social sciences  
  
---  
Primary |

  * Anthropology
    * archaeology
    * cultural
    * linguistics
    * social
  * Economics
    * microeconomics
    * macroeconomics
  * Geography
    * human
    * integrative
  * History
    * cultural
    * economic
    * military
    * political
    * social
  * Law
    * jurisprudence
    * legal history
    * legal systems
  * Political science
    * international relations
    * psephology
    * public administration
    * public policy
  * Psychology
    * abnormal
    * biological
    * cognitive
    * developmental
    * personality
    * social
  * Sociology
    * criminology
    * demography
    * internet
    * rural
    * urban

  
  
Interdisciplinary |

  * Anthrozoology
  * Area studies
  * Business studies
  * Cognitive science
  * Communication studies
  * Community studies
  * Cultural studies
  * Development studies
  * Education
  * Environmental (social science
  * studies)
  * Food studies
  * Gender studies
  * Global studies
  * History of technology
  * Human ecology
  * Information science
  * International studies
  * Media studies
  * Philosophy of science
    * economics
    * history
    * psychology
    * social science
  * Planning 
    * land use
    * regional
    * urban
  * Political ecology
  * Political economy
  * Public health
  * Regional science
  * Science and technology studies
  * Science studies
    * historical
  * Social work

  
  
Other categorizations |

  * Humanities
  * _Geisteswissenschaft_
  * Human science

  
  
  * Index
  * Journals
  * Outline
  * Wikiversity

  
  
Authority control |

  * GND: 4193780-6
  * NDL: 00577049

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Cognitive_science&oldid=814126200"

Categories:

  * Cognitive science
  * Branches of psychology

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 Spanish-language sources (es)
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Pages using web citations with no URL
  * Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL
  * Use dmy dates from July 2013
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2011
  * Articles needing additional references from August 2012
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * العربية
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Gàidhlig
  * 한국어
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Latina
  * Lietuvių
  * Limburgs
  * Magyar
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Simple English
  * سنڌي
  * Slovenčina
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 7 December 2017, at 00:57.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

