

# Computational finance

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Simulation of Brownian Motion sample paths is an important tool in calculating
the price of financial instruments under the risk-neutral measure.

**Computational finance** is a branch of applied computer science that deals
with problems of practical interest in finance.[1] Some slightly different
definitions are the study of data and algorithms currently used in finance[2]
and the mathematics of computer programs that realize financial models or
systems.[3]

Computational finance emphasizes practical numerical methods rather than
mathematical proofs and focuses on techniques that apply directly to economic
analyses.[4] It is an interdisciplinary field between mathematical finance and
numerical methods.[5] Two major areas are efficient and accurate computation
of fair values of financial securities and the modeling of stochastic price
series.[6]

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Applications of Computational Finance
  * 3 See also
  * 4 References
  * 5 External links

## History[edit]

The birth of computational finance as a discipline can be traced to Harry
Markowitz in the early 1950s. Markowitz conceived of the portfolio selection
problem as an exercise in mean-variance optimization. This required more
computer power than was available at the time, so he worked on useful
algorithms for approximate solutions.[7] Mathematical finance began with the
same insight, but diverged by making simplifying assumptions to express
relations in simple closed forms that did not require sophisticated computer
science to evaluate.[8]

In the 1960s, hedge fund managers such as Ed Thorp[9] and Michael Goodkin
(working with Harry Markowitz, Paul Samuelson and Robert C. Merton)[10]
pioneered the use of computers in arbitrage trading. In academics,
sophisticated computer processing was needed by researchers such as Eugene
Fama in order to analyze large amounts of financial data in support of the
efficient-market hypothesis.[8]

During the 1970s, the main focus of computational finance shifted to options
pricing and analyzing mortgage securitizations.[11] In the late 1970s and
early 1980s, a group of young quantitative practitioners who became known as
“rocket scientists” arrived on Wall Street and brought along personal
computers. This led to an explosion of both the amount and variety of
computational finance applications.[12] Many of the new techniques came from
signal processing and speech recognition rather than traditional fields of
computational economics like optimization and time series analysis.[12]

By the end of the 1980s, the winding down of the Cold War brought a large
group of displaced physicists and applied mathematicians, many from behind the
Iron Curtain, into finance. These people become known as “financial engineers”
(“quant” is a term that includes both rocket scientists and financial
engineers, as well as quantitative portfolio managers).[13] This led to a
second major extension of the range of computational methods used in finance,
also a move away from personal computers to mainframes and supercomputers.[11]
Around this time computational finance became recognized as a distinct
academic subfield. The first degree program in computational finance was
offered by Carnegie Mellon University in 1994.[14]

Over the last 20 years, the field of computational finance has expanded into
virtually every area of finance, and the demand for practitioners has grown
dramatically.[1] Moreover, many specialized companies have grown up to supply
computational finance software and services.[10]

## Applications of Computational Finance[edit]

  * Algorithmic trading
  * Quantitative investing
  * High-frequency trading

## See also[edit]

  * List of finance topics
  * Quantitative analyst
  * List of quantitative analysts
  * Mathematical finance
  * QuantLib
  * Algorithmic trading
  * Master of Computational Finance
  * Financial reinsurance
  * Financial modeling

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rüdiger U. Seydel, _Tools for Computational Finance_ , Springer; 3rd edition (May 11, 2006) 978-3540279235
  2. **^** "Computational Finance and Research Laboratory". University of Essex. Retrieved  2012-07-21. 
  3. **^** Cornelis A. Los, _Computational Finance_ World Scientific Pub Co Inc (December 2000) 978-9810244972
  4. **^** Mario J. Miranda and Paul L. Fackler, _Applied Computational Economics and Finance_ , The MIT Press (September 16, 2002) 978-0262134200
  5. **^** Omur Ugur, _Introduction to Computational Finance_ , Imperial College Press (December 22, 2008) 978-1848161924
  6. **^** Jin-Chuan Duan, Wolfgang Karl Härdle and James E. Gentle (editors), _Handbook of Computational Finance_ , Springer (October 25, 2011) 978-3642172533
  7. **^** Harry M. Markowitz, _Portfolio Selection: Efficient Diversification of Investments_ , Wiley, second edition (September 3, 1991) 978-1557861085
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Justin Fox, _The Myth of the Rational Market: A History of Risk, Reward, and Delusion on Wall Street_ , HarperBusiness (June 9, 2009) 978-0060598990
  9. **^** William Poundstone, _Fortune's Formula: The Untold Story of the Scientific Betting System That Beat the Casinos and Wall Street_ , Hill and Wang (September 19, 2006) 978-0809045990
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Michael Goodkin, _The Wrong Answer Faster: The Inside Story of Making the Machine that Trades Trillions_ , Wiley, (February 21, 2012) 978-1118133408
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Aaron Brown, _Red-Blooded Risk: The Secret History of Wall Street_ , Wiley (October 11, 2011) 978-1118043868
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ John F. Ehlers, _Rocket Science for Traders_ , Wiley (July 20, 2001) 978-0471405672
  13. **^** Aaron Brown, _The Poker Face of Wall Street_ , Wiley (March 31, 2006) 978-0470127315
  14. **^** "Center for Computational Finance". Carnegie Mellon University. Retrieved  2012-07-21. 

## External links[edit]

  * IEEE Computational Finance and Economics Technical Committee
  * An Introduction to Computational Finance without Agonizing Pain
  * Introduction to Computational Finance, IEEE Computational Intelligence Society Newsletter, August 2004
  * Numerical Techniques for Options
  * Monte Carlo Simulation of Stochastic Processes
  * Centre for Computational Finance and Economic Agents (CCFEA)
  * The Journal of Computational Finance

  * v
  * t
  * e

General areas of finance  
  
---  
  
  * Computational finance
  * Experimental finance
  * Financial economics
  * Financial institutions
  * Financial markets
  * Investment management
  * Mathematical finance
  * Personal finance
  * Public finance
  * Quantitative behavioral finance
  * Quantum finance
  * Statistical finance

  
  
Authority control |

  * NDL: 00838846

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Computational_finance&oldid=811745987"

Categories:

  * Mathematical finance
  * Actuarial science
  * Computational fields of study

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Български
  * Català
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * 日本語
  * Русский
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 23 November 2017, at 17:41.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

