

# David Tepper

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

David Tepper  
---  
Born | David Alan Tepper  
(1957-09-11) September 11, 1957 (age 60)  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.  
Nationality | American  
Alma mater | University of Pittsburgh (A.B.)  
Carnegie Mellon University (M.B.A.)  
Occupation | Investor, hedge fund manager, and philanthropist  
Known for | Founding and managing the funds of Appaloosa Management  
Net worth | US$11.7 billion (February 2017)[1]  
Spouse(s) | Marlene Tepper (m. 1986; div. 2014)  
Children | 3  
  
**David Alan Tepper** (born September 11, 1957) is an American investor, hedge
fund manager, and philanthropist. He is the founder and president of Appaloosa
Management, a global hedge fund based in Miami Beach, Florida.

He graduated from the University of Pittsburgh in 1978 with a bachelor's
degree in economics. He also earned his MBA (then known as an MSIA) from
Carnegie Mellon in 1982. In 2013, he donated his largest gift of $67 million
to Carnegie Mellon University, whose Tepper School of Business is named after
him.[1]

For the 2012 tax year, Institutional Investor’s Alpha ranked Tepper first, for
earning a $2.2 billion paycheck.[2] In 2016, Tepper earned US$1.2 billion
marking him the world's 4th highest earning hedge fund manager.[3]

## Contents

  * 1 Early life and education
  * 2 Investment career
  * 3 Personal life
  * 4 Political and economic views
  * 5 Wealth and philanthropy
  * 6 References
  * 7 Bibliography
  * 8 External links

## Early life and education[edit]

Tepper was raised in a Jewish family in the East End of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania in the Stanton Heights neighborhood.[4] He was the second of
three children born to Harry, who worked as an accountant, and Roberta, who
was an elementary school teacher who taught at public schools in the city.[5]
He attended Peabody High School in Pittsburgh's East Liberty neighborhood.[4]
He attended the University of Pittsburgh and helped pay his way through school
by working at the Frick Fine Arts library. He graduated with honors, receiving
his Bachelor of Arts degree in economics. He also dabbled in the markets
during college.[6] His first two investments, given to him by his father, were
Pennsylvania Engineering Co. and Career Academies, which went bankrupt.[7]

After graduation he entered the finance industry, working for Equibank as a
credit analyst in the treasury department. In 1980, unsatisfied with this
position, he enrolled at Carnegie Mellon University's business school to
pursue its then version of an MBA, a Master of Science in Industrial
Administration (MSIA).

## Investment career[edit]

After earning his MBA in 1982, Tepper accepted a position in the treasury
department of Republic Steel in Ohio.

In 1984, he was recruited to Keystone Mutual Funds (now part of Evergreen
Funds) in Boston, and in 1985, Tepper was recruited by Goldman Sachs, which
was forming its high yield group. He joined the firm in New York City as a
credit analyst. Within six months, Tepper became the head trader on the high-
yield desk at Goldman where he worked for eight years. His primary focus was
bankruptcies and special situations. He left Goldman in December 1992 and
started Appaloosa Management in early 1993.

In 2001, he generated a 61% return by focusing on distressed bonds, and in the
fourth quarter of 2005 he pursued what he saw as better opportunities in
Standard & Poor's 500 stocks.[8] He makes significant gains year after year by
“investing in the diciest of companies,” such as MCI and Mirant. Investments
in Conseco and Marconi also led to huge profits for the company’s hedge funds
while Tepper “keeps the market on edge.” [9]

In 2009, Tepper's hedge-fund earned about $7 billion by buying distressed
financial stocks in February and March (including Bank of America common stock
at $3 per share), and then profiting from the recovery of those stocks later
that year.[10] $4 billion of those profits went to Tepper's personal wealth.
In March 2010, the _New York Times_ reported that Tepper's success made him
the top-earning hedge fund manager of 2009.[11] In June 2011, he was awarded
the Institutional Hedge Fund Firm of the Year.[12] Then, again in 2013,
_Forbes_ ranked him as top hedge-fund earner of 2012, elevating his status to
the 166th wealthiest person in the world.[1]

In 2014, and in 2017 Forbes listed Tepper as one of the 25 highest-earning
hedge fund managers in 2013 and 2016 respectively.[13][14]

## Personal life[edit]

In 1986, he married Marlene Resnick Tepper;[15] they have three children:
Brian, Randi, and Casey.[16] In 2014, several media outlets reported that he
separated from his wife.[16]

In 2016, he relocated his family and his company to Miami Beach, Florida,
where there are no personal income taxes.[17] Tepper lived in New Jersey for
more than two decades, initially as an executive at Goldman Sachs Group Inc.,
where he helped run junk-bond trading during the late 1980s and early 1990s.

Tepper serves as a member of the business board of advisors for the Tepper
School of Business at Carnegie Mellon and serves on various boards and
committees for charitable and community organizations in New York and New
Jersey.[18] On September 25, 2009, Tepper purchased a 5% stake in the
Pittsburgh Steelers.[19][20]

Tepper keeps a brass replica of a pair of testicles in a prominent spot on his
desk, a present from former employees. He rubs the gift for luck during the
trading day to get a laugh out of colleagues.[21]

## Political and economic views[edit]

Tepper contributed $10,400 to the 2013 Jersey City Mayoral Candidate, Steve
Fulop. According to the Jersey Journal on October 24, 2012, "David Tepper, the
billionaire who supports tenure reform and charter schools, contributed
$10,400 to Fulop's council candidates, while Tepper's wife gave the team an
additional $10,400."[22] Fulop's former campaign manager Shelley Skinner[23]
became the Deputy Director of Tepper's non-profit Better Education for
Kids.[24]

Tepper supported the 2016 Jeb Bush presidential campaign.[25]

## Wealth and philanthropy[edit]

According to _Forbes_ , Tepper has a net worth of $11.4 billion as of February
2017.[26] The Bloomberg Billionaires Index ranked him as the wealthiest person
in New Jersey.[27]

On March 19, 2003, Tepper announced that he would make a single donation of
$55 million to Carnegie Mellon University's business school (then called the
Graduate School of Industrial Administration—GSIA).[28] This donation was made
after he had been encouraged by Kenneth Dunn, his former professor (who became
dean of the school). Tepper accepted the suggestion but made the contribution
a “naming gift” and suggested that the school's name be changed to the David
A. Tepper School of Business.[29] Further, in November 2013, Carnegie Mellon
announced a $67 million gift from Tepper to develop the Tepper Quadrangle on
the north campus. The Tepper Quad will include a new Tepper School of Business
facility across the street from the Heinz College as well as other university-
wide buildings and a welcome center which will serve as a public gateway to
the university. This brings Tepper's total gift to Carnegie Mellon to $125
million.[30]

Tepper also has made several large gifts to the University of Pittsburgh,
including several endowed undergraduate scholarships and support of academic
centers and university-run community outreach programs.[31] Tepper and wife
Marlene have pledged $3.4 million to Rutgers University \- Mason Gross School
of the Arts, the alma mater of his wife.[32]

In 2006, Tepper donated $1 million to United Jewish Communities of MetroWest
New Jersey toward their Israel Emergency Campaign.[33]

In March 2012, Tepper and his former colleague, Alan Fournier founded a
political action group, Better Education For Kids. "Better Education for Kids
is entering the fray as private organizations are poised to play a larger role
in education in New Jersey. Christie wants more charter schools, and he’s
pushing legislation that would allow private companies to take over struggling
public schools. According to the NJ Star Ledger on June 24, 2011, "Last week,
the fledgling group launched a $1 million campaign to advertise its mission
and solicit donations. Unlike traditional non-profits, Better Education for
Kids is a type of non-profit not required to disclose its donors. Though the
group cannot formally coordinate its work with lawmakers, it will be advised
by two of the state’s top political consultants: Mike DuHaime, a Republican
strategist with close ties to Christie, and Jamie Fox, a Democrat who served
as former Gov. James E. McGreevey’s chief of staff."[34]

After Hurricane Sandy, David Tepper donated $200,000 in gift cards to Jersey
City and Hoboken families who suffered loss in the storm.[35][36][37]

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Forbes The World's Billionaires: David Tepper Archived December 28, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. March 2014
  2. **^** _Hedge Fund Titans’ Pay Stretching to 10 Figures_ Archived October 16, 2015, at the Wayback Machine. April 15, 2013 New York Times
  3. **^** "David Tepper". _Forbes_. Retrieved  2017-02-14. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Carnegie Mellon Tepper School of Business: "Meet the Man Behind the Gift" Archived June 11, 2010, at the Wayback Machine. November 17, 2004
  5. **^** "New Book Reveals The Cool Childhood Of Hedge Fund God David Tepper". Business Insider. Retrieved  23 October 2013. 
  6. **^** "David Tepper's Bio, Quotes, Videos, Recent Buys, News – Resource Page". Retrieved  22 October 2013. 
  7. **^** "David Tepper's Bio, Quotes, Videos, Recent Buys, News – Resource Page". Value Walk. Retrieved  22 October 2013. 
  8. **^** Fridson, Martin (March 2, 2006). "Too Many Dollars?" (PDF). _“Distressed Debt Investor” Article_. Fridson Vision LLC. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 16, 2006. Retrieved 2006-08-17. 
  9. **^** "Turning Heads on Wall Street" (PDF). _(Reprint of Article. The Wall Street Journal)_. Carnegie Mellon University. April 14, 2004. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-06-28. Retrieved 2006-08-17. 
  10. **^** Zuckerman, Gregory (December 21, 2009), "Fund Boss Made $7 Billion in the Panic", _Wall Street Journal_  
  11. **^** Schwartz, Nelson D.; Story, Louise (March 31, 2010). "Pay of Hedge Fund Managers Roared Back Last Year". _The New York Times_.  
  12. **^** "David Tepper's Bio, Quotes, Videos, Recent Buys, News – Resource Page". Value Walk. Retrieved  23 October 2013. 
  13. **^** Vardi, Nathan (Feb 26, 2014), "The 25 Highest-Earning Hedge Fund Managers And Traders", _Forbes_  
  14. **^** Vardi, Nathan. "The 25 Highest-Earning Hedge Fund Managers And Traders". _Forbes_. Retrieved  2017-04-12. 
  15. **^** Foley, Stephen (22 December 2009). "$2.5bn pay packet for fund manager". _The Independent_. Retrieved  22 December 2009. 
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Daily Mail: "World's highest-paid hedge fund manager worth $10 billion 'splits from his wife of 28 years'" Archived March 5, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. 10 June 2014
  17. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2016-12-28. Retrieved  2016-07-16. 
  18. **^** "About David Tepper". David Tepper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon. Archived from the original on 25 December 2009. Retrieved  22 December 2009. 
  19. **^** Bouchette, Ed (September 24, 2009), "Steelers close deal to add new owners", _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_  
  20. **^** "New Book Reveals The Cool Childhood Of Hedge Fund God David Tepper". Business Insider. Retrieved  23 October 2013. 
  21. **^** Jessica, Pressler (Dec 21, 2009), "Hedge-Fund Manager David Tepper Has a Pair of Brass Balls", _The New Yorker_  
  22. **^** Jersey Journal October 24, 2012 Mayoral candidate Fulop is far ahead of Mayor Healy in fundraising http://www.nj.com/jjournal-news/index.ssf/2012/10/ersey_city_mayoral_candidate_f.html[ _permanent dead link_ ]
  23. **^** Politicker NJ February 4, 2009 "Fulop To Run As Independent" http://www.politickernj.com/matt-friedman/27117/fulop-run-independent[ _permanent dead link_ ]
  24. **^** Better Education 4 NJ Kids' website "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2016-12-01. Retrieved 2013-02-22. 
  25. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2016-04-24. Retrieved  2015-08-16. 
  26. **^** "David Tepper". _Forbes_. Retrieved  2017-02-02. 
  27. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2016-12-27. Retrieved  2016-04-05. 
  28. **^** Bradshaw, Della (May 17, 2004). "Dean profiles Working for $1 a year". _Business Schools Ranking_. Financial Times. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 
  29. **^** "But can you teach it?". _Special Report - Business schools_. The Economist. May 20, 2004. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 
  30. **^** Retrieved November 15, 2013. Archived March 20, 2016, at the Wayback Machine.
  31. **^** "Pitt to Induct Six Donors Into Cathedral Of Learning Society". _Pitt Chronicle_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. June 23, 2008. Retrieved  November 2, 2013. 
  32. **^** Rutgers College alumna Marlene A. Tepper and her husband, David A. Tepper, of Livingston, N.J., have pledged $3.4 million to the Mason Gross School of the Arts.
  33. **^** New Jersey Jewish News: "Seven-figure donation fuels emergency campaign: Archived May 7, 2016, at the Wayback Machine. September 7, 2006
  34. **^** Jerry McCrea/The Star-Ledger (2011-06-24). "N.J. hedge fund leaders create group to financially back education reforms supported by Gov. Christie". NJ.com. Retrieved 2014-05-09. 
  35. **^** Star-Ledger photo (2013-01-21). "Tepper gift card effort was laudable, writes Jersey City resident". NJ.com. Retrieved 2014-05-09. 
  36. **^** "Billionaire Tepper's gift card giveaway gets thumbs-up from Hoboken Housing Authority chief". NJ.com. 2013-01-08. Retrieved  2014-05-09. 
  37. **^** Jersey Journal file photo (2012-12-22). "2 Jersey City councilwomen blast billionaire's gift card giveaway as disorganized, hurtful". NJ.com. Retrieved 2014-05-09. 

## Bibliography[edit]

  * Reuters staff (March 16, 2006). "Dissident Delphi investor challenges board". _The Boston Globe_. Reuters. Retrieved  2006-08-17. [ _dead link_ ]
  * Forbes staff (November 2005). "#645 David Tepper". _The Worlds Billionaires_. Forbes magazine. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 
  * Editorial staff (March 29, 2004). "How To Rebuild A B-School". _Management_. Businessweek. Archived from the original on August 16, 2006. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 
  * staff (2006). "America's Most-Generous Donors". _List the 2004 Pledges_. The Chronicle of Philanthropy. Retrieved  2006-08-17. [ _dead link_ ]
  * Tepper magazine staff (2004). "A kid from Peabody High School" (PDF). _Feature_. Carnegie Mellon University. p. 6\. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-06-28. Retrieved 2006-08-17. Guinto, Joseph (September 1, 2004). "To MBA or Not to MBA, That is the Question". _Business Feature_. American Way magazine. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 
  * Web staff (August 17, 2006). "David Tepper Bio". Tepper School of Business. Archived from the original on 2006-07-15. Retrieved 2006-08-17. 
  * CM Today magazine staff (June 2006). "Wall Street Wizard David Tepper "learns it, earns it and returns it"". _Top Stories_. Carnegie Mellon University. Archived from the original on 2004-06-26. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 

## External links[edit]

  * Named Investment Guru of 2010
  * David Tepper Portfolio with stock Picks
  * David Tepper's Appaloosa Stock Portfolio, updated quarterly
  * Tepper school official website
  * "David Tepper Hedge Fund Manager Appaloosa Management," aTrader, May 4, 2010
  * "Investor David Tepper goes where others don't dare", _Pittsburgh Tribune-Review_ , December 22, 2009
  * "Ready to be Rich," (September 26, 2010 profile in New York Magazine)
  * "Fund Boss Made $7 Billion in the Panic", _The Wall Street Journal_ , December 23, 2009

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=David_Tepper&oldid=816161889"

Categories:

  * 1957 births
  * Living people
  * American billionaires
  * American financial analysts
  * American financiers
  * Jewish American philanthropists
  * American money managers
  * American hedge fund managers
  * Goldman Sachs people
  * People from Livingston, New Jersey
  * Businesspeople from Pittsburgh
  * Stock and commodity market managers
  * Tepper School of Business alumni
  * University of Pittsburgh alumni
  * Carnegie Mellon University trustees
  * Businesspeople from New Jersey

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from December 2016
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Articles with hCards
  * Articles with dead external links from October 2010

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Deutsch
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 日本語

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 19 December 2017, at 17:55.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

