

# Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

**This article has multiple issues.** Please help **improve it** or discuss
these issues on the **talk page**. _(Learn how and when to remove these
template messages)_

|

|

This article's **use ofexternal links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or
guidelines**.  Please improve this article by removing excessive or
inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate
into footnote references. _(March 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this
template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
|

This article **contains content that is written likean advertisement**.
Please help improve it by removing promotional content and inappropriate
external links, and by adding encyclopedic content written from a neutral
point of view. _(February 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
_(Learn how and when to remove this template message)_  
  
"Dietrich College" redirects here. For the school at the University of
Pittsburgh, see Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences.

Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences  
---  
  
Former names

| College of Humanities and Social Sciences (1969-2011)  
Type | Private College of Humanities and Social Sciences  
Established | 1969  
Dean | Richard Scheines  
  
Academic staff

| 256[1]  
Undergraduates | 1,148[1]  
Postgraduates | 86[1]  
  
Doctoral students

| 192[1]  
Location | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  
Campus | Urban  
Website | cmu.edu/dietrich  
  
The **Marianna Brown Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences** (
**Dietrich College** or **DC** ) is the liberal and professional studies
college and the second largest academic unit by enrollment at Carnegie Mellon
University in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. The college emphasizes study
through rigorous analysis and technology and the behaviors, institutions, and
beliefs that constitute the human experience. The college was named for
Marianna Brown Dietrich, the mother of philanthropist William S. Dietrich II
after his donation of $265 million to the university in 2011 -- the largest
single donation in Carnegie Mellon history.

The Dietrich College offers more than 60 majors and minors through its
academic departments and specialized degree programs. It is committed to a
balance among humanistic, scientific, and professional orientations, and to an
emphasis on integrating research experience into undergraduate education. The
Dietrich College General Education Program combines required courses that
teach key analytical skills with a wide range of elective courses to develop
foundational skills essential to effective learning throughout the college
career and beyond.

## Contents

  * 1 About the Dietrich College
  * 2 Departments and programs
  * 3 Areas of study
    * 3.1 Jointly administered undergraduate degree programs
    * 3.2 Pre-professional advising
  * 4 Rankings
  * 5 Research
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## About the Dietrich College[edit]

The College of Humanities and Social Sciences admitted its first freshman
class in 1969, following the announcement of the pending closure of the
Margaret Morrison Carnegie College, although roots of the college can be
traced to the Division of Applied Psychology, founded in 1915 and led by
Walter Van Dyke Bingham and Walter Dill Scott as the first research-oriented
department within Carnegie Mellon.[2] The administrative offices of the
Dietrich College are located in Baker Hall. Most of the classes offered by the
Dietrich College are held in Baker Hall and Porter Hall, but some classes,
particularly the smaller recitation classes, are held in various locations
throughout the campus. All undergraduate students at Carnegie Mellon are
required to take several Dietrich classes (at least two, but usually more) as
part of their program's General Education requirements. Dietrich College's
general education program has been called "the most creative general education
program of any American university" by the New York Times.[ _citation needed_
] The founding Dean of the Dietrich College was Erwin Steinberg. Past deans
include John Patrick Crecine, Stephen Fienberg, Joel A. Tarr, Peter Stearns,
and John P. Lehoczky . The current Dean is Professor of Philosophy Richard
Scheines, who began his term on July 1, 2014.[3] In December, 2014, the Andrew
W. Mellon Foundation awarded the Dietrich College a $2 million grant to
develop training in digital humanities for PhD students in the departments of
English, History, Philosophy, and Modern Languages.[4]

On September 7th, 2011, William S. Dietrich II, the former chairman of
Dietrich Industries, Inc., a subsidiary of Worthington Industries, Inc.,
pledged a gift of $265 million. In response to this gift, Carnegie Mellon
renamed the College of Humanities and Social Sciences to the Marianna Brown
Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences after William Dietrich's
mother.[5]

## Departments and programs[edit]

Baker Hall, home of the Dietrich College

The Dietrich College manages seven departments, one institute, one center, and
four interdisciplinary programs.

  * Department of English
  * Department of History
  * Department of Modern Languages
  * Department of Philosophy
  * Department of Psychology
  * Department of Social and Decision Sciences
  * Department of Statistics & Data Science
  * Institute for Politics and Strategy
  * Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition
  * Economics Program (jointly with the Tepper School of Business)
  * Information Systems Program
  * Humanities Scholars Program
  * Quantitative Social Science Scholars Program

## Areas of study[edit]

Undergraduates can earn a Bachelor of Arts or Bachelor of Science in the
following fields of study. Additional majors and minors are available in most
fields as well. Graduate programs at the master and doctorate levels are also
available through the college.

  * Behavioral Economics, Policy, and Organizations
  * Chinese Studies
  * Cognitive Science
  * Creative Writing
  * Decision Science
  * Economics
  * Economics and Mathematics
  * Economics and Statistics
  * English
  * Environmental policy (additional major only)
  * Ethics, History, and Public Policy
  * European Studies
  * French and Francophone Studies
  * German Studies
  * Global Studies
  * Hispanic Studies

|  |  |  |

  * Information Systems (primary major only)
  * International Relations and Politics
  * Japanese Studies
  * Linguistics
  * Logic and Computation
  * Neuroscience
  * Philosophy
  * Policy and Management
  * Professional Writing
  * Psychology
  * Psychology and Biological Sciences
  * Russian Studies
  * Social and Political History
  * Statistics
  * Statistics and Machine Learning
  * Technical Writing and Communication

  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
In addition, undergraduate students can define their own major through
consultation with their academic advisor.

### Jointly administered undergraduate degree programs[edit]

The Dietrich College jointly administers the Bachelor of Humanities and Arts
(BHA) and Science and Humanities Scholars (SHS) degree programs with the
College of Fine Arts and the Mellon College of Science, respectively.

### Pre-professional advising[edit]

The office of Carnegie Mellon's Pre-law Advising Program is located in the
Dietrich College Academic Advisory Center in Baker Hall. Because it is a
university program, all interested undergraduate students of the university
are welcome to make use of the services offered by the program. Similarly, all
interested students of the university, not just science students, can meet
with the advisor for the Health Professions Program, located in Doherty Hall.

## Rankings[edit]

Several of the Dietrich College's graduate programs have been ranked in
national and international surveys. The 2018 _U.S. News& World Report_
graduate schools rankings ranked the graduate program Economics 91st in the
country, English 51st, History 44th, Statistics 9th, and Psychology 17st. The
graduate program in cognitive psychology is especially highly ranked at 5th in
the country.[6]

The Times Higher Education Supplement (THES) ranking of world universities,
the Dietrich College ranked 30th in North America and 51st in the world in the
social sciences category.[7] The Dietrich College is also ranked 20th in the
social sciences among Shanghai Jiao Tong University's world's top 100
universities.[8]

A 2014 ranking of the top earning average starting salaries by graduates in
colleges of humanities and social sciences ranked the Dietrich College first
with an average salary of $60,723.[9]

## Research[edit]

The Dietrich College has particular strengths in the interdisciplinary fields
of cognitive science, decision science, logic, rational choice, technical
writing, history and policy, and cognitive neuroscience and manages the
following interdisciplinary research centers, some of which are linked to
other Carnegie Mellon colleges or the University of Pittsburgh:

  * Carnegie Mellon University Press
  * Center for African American Urban Studies & the Economy
  * Center for Ethics and Policy
  * Center for the Arts in Society
  * Center for Behavior and Decision Research
  * Center for Cognitive Brain Imaging
  * Center for Formal Epistemology
  * Center for History and Policy
  * Center for Human Rights Science
  * Center for International Relations and Politics
  * Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition
  * Center for Risk Perception and Communication
  * Child Language Data Exchange System
  * Children's School
  * Global Communication Center
  * The Dynamic Decision Making Laboratory

|  |  |  |

  * Health and Human Performance Lab
  * The Humanities Center
  * Infant Cognition Lab
  * Infant Language and Learning Lab
  * Laboratory for Empirical Approaches to Philosophy
  * Laboratory for the Study of Stress, Immunity and Disease
  * Laboratory for Symbolic and Educational Computing
  * Modern Language Resource Center
  * Pittsburgh Consortium for Medieval and Renaissance Studies
  * Pittsburgh Eighteenth Century Consortium
  * Pittsburgh Mind-Body Center
  * Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center
  * Pittsburgh Speech and Society
  * Program for Interdisciplinary Education Research
  * The Relationship Lab

  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Carnegie Mellon Quick Facts" (PDF). _CMU Website_. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 February 2014. Retrieved 11 February 2014. 
  2. **^** "CMU Psychology: 100 Years". _Carnegie Mellon Psychology_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 
  3. **^** "Richard Scheines Named New Dean of Carnegie Mellon's Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 
  4. **^** "Andrew W. Mellon Foundation Grants Carnegie Mellon $2 Million To Transform Graduate Education in Humanities". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 
  5. **^** "Bill Dietrich & Carnegie Mellon University". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 
  6. **^** "Carnegie Mellon University – Overall Rankings". _US News and World Report_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 
  7. **^** "Subject Ranking 2014-15: Social Sciences". _Times Higher Education (THE)_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 
  8. **^** "Rankings". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 
  9. **^** "15 Colleges with the Highest Salaries for Liberal Arts Grads - NerdWallet". _NerdWallet_. Retrieved  2016-04-13. 

  * Fenton, Edwin (2000). _Carnegie Mellon 1900-2000: A Centennial History_. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press. ISBN 0-88748-323-2.  

## External links[edit]

  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
Coordinates:  40°26′37″N 79°56′30″W﻿ / ﻿40.443504°N 79.941571°W﻿ / 40.443504;
-79.941571

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Dietrich_College_of_Humanities_and_Social_Sciences&oldid=810344117"

Categories:

  * Schools and departments of Carnegie Mellon
  * Educational institutions established in 1969
  * Liberal arts colleges at universities in the United States
  * 1969 establishments in Pennsylvania

Hidden categories:

  * Wikipedia external links cleanup from March 2017
  * Wikipedia spam cleanup from March 2017
  * Articles with a promotional tone from February 2017
  * All articles with a promotional tone
  * Articles with multiple maintenance issues
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * فارسی

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 14 November 2017, at 18:15.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

