

# Duke University

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Duke University  
---  
Latin: Universitas Dukiana[1]  
  
Former names

|

  * Brown School (1838–1841)
  * Union Institute (1841–1851)
  * Normal College (1851–1859)
  * Trinity College (1859–1924)

  
  
Motto | _Eruditio et Religio_ (Latin)[1]  
  
Motto in English

| Knowledge and Faith[2]  
Type | Private  
Established | 1838  
  
Academic affiliations

|

  * AAU
  * COFHE
  * 568 Group
  * URA
  * CDIO
  * ORAU
  * NAICU
  * IAMSCU

  
  
Endowment | $7.9 billion (2017)[3](The university is also the primary
beneficiary (32%) of the independent $3.4 billion Duke Endowment)[4]  
Budget | $2.3 billion (FY 2017)[5]  
President | Vincent Price[6]  
  
Academic staff

| 3,552 (December 2016)[4]  
  
Administrative staff

|

  * 8,435 Campus Employees
  * 38,591 Total University & Health System Employees (as of December 2016) [4]

  
  
Students | 15,130 (Fall 2017)[4]  
Undergraduates | 6,562 (Fall 2017)[4]  
Postgraduates | (Fall 2016)[4]  
Location | Durham, North Carolina, U.S.  
36°0′4″N 78°56′20″W﻿ / ﻿36.00111°N 78.93889°W﻿ / 36.00111;
-78.93889Coordinates: 36°0′4″N 78°56′20″W﻿ / ﻿36.00111°N 78.93889°W﻿ /
36.00111; -78.93889  
Campus | Suburban/Urban[4]  
8,691 acres (35.2 km2)  
Colors | Duke blue, white[7][8]  
  
Nickname | Blue Devils  
  
Sporting affiliations

| NCAA Division I FBS – ACC  
Website | www.duke.edu  
  
**Duke University** is a private research university located in Durham, North
Carolina. Founded by Methodists and Quakers in the present-day town of Trinity
in 1838, the school moved to Durham in 1892.[9] In 1924, tobacco and electric
power industrialist James Buchanan Duke established The Duke Endowment, at
which time the institution changed its name to honor his deceased father,
Washington Duke.

Duke's campus spans over 8,600 acres (3,500 hectares) on three contiguous
campuses in Durham as well as a marine lab in Beaufort. The main
campus—designed largely by architect Julian Abele—incorporates Gothic
architecture with the 210-foot (64-meter) Duke Chapel at the campus' center
and highest point of elevation. The first-year-populated East Campus contains
Georgian-style architecture, while the main Gothic-style West Campus 1.5 miles
(2.4 kilometers) away is adjacent to the Medical Center. Duke is the seventh-
wealthiest private university in America with $11.4 billion in cash and
investments in fiscal year 2014.[10] On 2017, The Chronicle reported that the
university had approximately $13.6 billion in net assets.[11]

Duke's research expenditures in the 2015 fiscal year were $1.037 billion, the
seventh largest in the nation.[12] In 2014, Thomson Reuters named 32 of Duke's
professors to its list of Highly Cited Researchers, making it fourth globally
in terms of primary affiliations.[13] Duke also ranks fifth among national
universities to have produced Rhodes, Marshall, Truman, Goldwater, and Udall
Scholars.[14] Ten Nobel laureates and three Turing Award winners are
affiliated with the university. Duke's sports teams compete in the Atlantic
Coast Conference and the basketball team is renowned for having won five NCAA
Division I Men's Basketball Championships, most recently in 2015.

Duke is often ranked among the best universities in the world by numerous
university rankings.[15][16][17] It is also the second-largest[18] private
employer in North Carolina with more than 37,000 employed [18] and is
consistently ranked among the top places to work by multiple publications,
including Forbes[19] and the Chronicle of Higher Education.[20]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Beginnings
    * 1.2 Expansion and growth
    * 1.3 Recent history
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 West, East, and Central Campuses
    * 2.2 Key places
  * 3 Administration and organization
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Admissions
    * 4.2 Graduate profile
    * 4.3 Undergraduate curriculum
    * 4.4 Libraries and museums
    * 4.5 Research
    * 4.6 Reputation and rankings
      * 4.6.1 Undergraduate rankings
      * 4.6.2 Graduate school rankings
  * 5 Student life
    * 5.1 Student body
    * 5.2 Residential life
    * 5.3 Greek and social life
    * 5.4 Activities
      * 5.4.1 Student organizations
      * 5.4.2 Civic engagement
      * 5.4.3 Student media
  * 6 Duke Alumni Association
  * 7 _Duke Magazine_
  * 8 Athletics
    * 8.1 Men's basketball
    * 8.2 Football
    * 8.3 Track and field
  * 9 Notable people
    * 9.1 Government
    * 9.2 Academia and research
    * 9.3 Journalism
    * 9.4 Literature
    * 9.5 Business
    * 9.6 Athletics
  * 10 See also
  * 11 References
  * 12 External links

## History[edit]

### Beginnings[edit]

Main article: History of Duke University

One of the first buildings on the original Durham campus (East Campus), the
Washington Duke Building ("Old Main"), was destroyed by a fire in 1911.

Duke started in 1838 as Brown's Schoolhouse, a private subscription school
founded in Randolph County in the present-day town of Trinity.[21] Organized
by the Union Institute Society, a group of Methodists and Quakers, Brown's
Schoolhouse became the Union Institute Academy in 1841 when North Carolina
issued a charter. The academy was renamed Normal College in 1851 and then
Trinity College in 1859 because of support from the Methodist Church.[21] In
1892, Trinity College moved to Durham, largely due to generosity from Julian
S. Carr and Washington Duke, powerful and respected Methodists who had grown
wealthy through the tobacco and electrical industries.[9] Carr donated land in
1892 for the original Durham campus, which is now known as East Campus. At the
same time, Washington Duke gave the school $85,000 for an initial endowment
and construction costs—later augmenting his generosity with three separate
$100,000 contributions in 1896, 1899, and 1900—with the stipulation that the
college "open its doors to women, placing them on an equal footing with
men."[22]

In 1924 Washington Duke's son, James B. Duke, established The Duke Endowment
with a $40 million trust fund. Income from the fund was to be distributed to
hospitals, orphanages, the Methodist Church, and four colleges (including
Trinity College). William Preston Few, the president of Trinity at the time,
insisted that the institution be renamed Duke University to honor the family's
generosity and to distinguish it from the myriad other colleges and
universities carrying the "Trinity" name. At first, James B. Duke thought the
name change would come off as self-serving, but eventually he accepted Few's
proposal as a memorial to his father.[9] Money from the endowment allowed the
University to grow quickly. Duke's original campus, East Campus, was rebuilt
from 1925 to 1927 with Georgian-style buildings. By 1930, the majority of the
Collegiate Gothic-style buildings on the campus one mile (1.6 km) west were
completed, and construction on West Campus culminated with the completion of
Duke Chapel in 1935.[23]

James B. Duke established the Duke Endowment, which provides funds to numerous
institutions, including Duke University.

In 1878, Trinity (in Randolph County) awarded A.B. degrees to three
sisters—Mary, Persis, and Theresa Giles—who had studied both with private
tutors and in classes with men. With the relocation of the college in 1892,
the Board of Trustees voted to again allow women to be formally admitted to
classes as day students. At the time of Washington Duke's donation in 1896,
which carried the requirement that women be placed "on an equal footing with
men" at the college, four women were enrolled; three of the four were faculty
members' children. In 1903 Washington Duke wrote to the Board of Trustees
withdrawing the provision, noting that it had been the only limitation he had
ever put on a donation to the college. A woman's residential dormitory was
built in 1897 and named the Mary Duke Building, after Washington Duke's
daughter. By 1904, fifty-four women were enrolled in the college. In 1930, the
Woman's College was established as a coordinate to the men's undergraduate
college, which had been established and named Trinity College in 1924.[24]

### Expansion and growth[edit]

Engineering, which had been taught since 1903, became a separate school in
1939. In athletics, Duke hosted and competed in the only Rose Bowl ever played
outside California in Wallace Wade Stadium in 1942.[21] During World War II,
Duke was one of 131 colleges and universities nationally that took part in the
V-12 Navy College Training Program which offered students a path to a Navy
commission.[25] In 1963 the Board of Trustees officially desegregated the
undergraduate college.[26] Increased activism on campus during the 1960s
prompted Martin Luther King Jr. to speak at the University in November 1964 on
the progress of the Civil Rights Movement. Following Douglas Knight's
resignation from the office of university president, Terry Sanford, the former
governor of North Carolina, was elected president of the university in 1969,
propelling The Fuqua School of Business' opening, the William R. Perkins
library completion, and the founding of the Institute of Policy Sciences and
Public Affairs (now the Sanford School of Public Policy). The separate Woman's
College merged back with Trinity as the liberal arts college for both men and
women in 1972. Beginning in the 1970s, Duke administrators began a long-term
effort to strengthen Duke's reputation both nationally and internationally.
Interdisciplinary work was emphasized, as was recruiting minority faculty and
students. During this time it also became the birthplace of the first
Physician Assistant degree program in the United States.[27][28][29] Duke
University Hospital was finished in 1980 and the student union building was
fully constructed two years later. In 1986 the men's soccer team captured
Duke's first National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) championship, and
the men's basketball team followed shortly thereafter with championships in
1991 and 1992, then again in 2001, 2010, and 2015.

### Recent history[edit]

The Levine Science Research Center is the largest single-site
interdisciplinary research facility of any American university.[30]

Duke's growth and academic focus have contributed to continuing the
university's reputation as an academic and research powerhouse.[31]

In summer 2014, Duke Kunshan University (DKU) opened in Kunshan, China. DKU
blends liberal education with Chinese tradition in a new approach to elite
higher education in China. DKU will conduct research projects on climate
change, health-care policy and tuberculosis prevention and control.[32]

In August 2005, Duke established a partnership with the National University of
Singapore to develop a joint medical program, which had its first entering
class in 2007.[33]

The university is part way through Duke Forward, a seven-year fundraising
campaign that aims to raise $3.25 billion by June 30, 2017, to enrich the
student experience in and out of the classroom, invest in faculty and support
research and initiatives. Every dollar donated to Duke's ten schools and
units, Duke Medicine or university programs and initiatives counts toward the
campaign's goal.[34]

Among academic achievements at Duke, three students were named Rhodes Scholars
in both 2002 and 2006, a number surpassed only by Harvard in 2002 and the
United States Military Academy in 2006.[35][36] Overall, Duke has produced 45
Rhodes Scholars through 2015, including 24 between 1990 and 2015.[37]

Also, the first working demonstration of an invisibility cloak was unveiled by
Duke researchers in October 2006.[38]

In 2006, three men's lacrosse team members were falsely accused of rape, which
garnered significant media attention. On April 11, 2007, North Carolina
Attorney General Roy Cooper dropped all charges and declared the three players
innocent. Cooper stated that the charged players were victims of a "tragic
rush to accuse."

The university has "historical, formal, ongoing, and symbolic ties" with the
United Methodist Church, but is a nonsectarian and independent
institution.[39][40][41][42]

On August 19, 2017, following the violent clashes at the Unite the Right rally
in Charlottesville, Virginia, the statue of Confederate Gen. Robert E. Lee was
removed from the entrance to the Duke University Chapel, after having been
vandalized by civil rights protesters.[43][44][45][46][47]

## Campus[edit]

Duke Chapel, an icon for the university, can seat nearly 1,600 people and
contains a 5,200-pipe organ.

Duke University owns 254 buildings on 8,691 acres (35.17 km2) of land, which
includes the 7,044 acres (28.51 km2) Duke Forest.[4] The campus is divided
into four main areas: West, East, and Central campuses and the Medical Center,
which are all connected via a free bus service. On the Atlantic coast in
Beaufort, Duke owns 15 acres (61,000 m2) as part of its marine lab. One of the
major public attractions on the main campus is the 55-acre (220,000 m2) Sarah
P. Duke Gardens, established in the 1930s.[4]

Duke students often refer to the campus as "the Gothic Wonderland", a nickname
referring to the Collegiate Gothic architecture of West Campus.[48][49] Much
of the campus was designed by Julian Abele, one of the first prominent
African-American architects and the chief designer in the offices of architect
Horace Trumbauer.[50] The residential quadrangles are of an early and somewhat
unadorned design, while the buildings in the academic quadrangles show
influences of the more elaborate late French and Italian styles. The freshmen
campus (East Campus) is composed of buildings in the Georgian architecture
style. In 2011, Travel+Leisure listed Duke among the most beautiful college
campuses in the United States.[51]

The stone used for West Campus has seven primary colors and seventeen shades
of color.[52] The university supervisor of planning and construction wrote
that the stone has "an older, more attractive antique effect" and a "warmer
and softer coloring than the Princeton stone" that gave the university an
"artistic look."[52] James B. Duke initially suggested the use of stone from a
quarry in Princeton, New Jersey, but later amended the plans to purchase a
local quarry in Hillsborough to reduce costs.[52] Duke Chapel stands at the
center of West Campus on the highest ridge. Constructed from 1930 to 1935, the
chapel seats 1,600 people and, at 210 feet (64 m) is one of the tallest
buildings in Durham County.[53]

A number of construction projects were in progress during 2015, including
renovations to Duke Chapel, Wallace Wade Stadium (football) and Cameron Indoor
Stadium (basketball).[54]

In early 2014, the Nicholas School of the Environment opened a new home,
Environmental Hall,[55] a five-story, glass-and-concrete building that
incorporates the highest sustainable features and technologies, and meets or
exceeds the criteria for LEED platinum certification. The School of Nursing in
April 2014 opened a new 45,000-square-foot addition to the Christine Siegler
Pearson Building.[56] In summer 2014, a number of construction projects were
completed.[57] The project is part of the final phase of renovations to Duke's
West Campus libraries that have transformed one of the university's oldest and
most recognizable buildings into a state-of-the-art research facility. The
David M. Rubenstein Rare Book and Manuscript Library reopened in August 2015
after about $60 million in renovations to the sections of the building built
in 1928 and 1948. The renovations include more space, technology upgrades and
new exhibits.

In 2013, construction projects included transforming buildings like Gross Hall
and Baldwin Auditorium, plus new construction such as the Events Pavilion.
About 125,000 square feet was updated at Gross Hall, including new lighting
and windows and a skylight.[58] Baldwin's upgrades include a larger stage,
more efficient air conditioning for performers and audience and enhanced
acoustics that will allow for the space to be "tuned" to each individual
performance.[59] The 25,000-square-foot Events Pavilion opened to students in
2013 and serves as temporary dining space while the West Campus Union
undergoes major renovations, expected to be completed in the spring of 2016.
From February 2001 to November 2005, Duke spent $835 million on 34 major
construction projects as part of a five-year strategic plan, "Building on
Excellence."[60] Completed projects since 2002 include major additions to the
business, law, nursing, and divinity schools, a new library, the Nasher Museum
of Art, a football training facility, two residential buildings, an
engineering complex, a public policy building, an eye institute, two genetic
research buildings, a student plaza, the French Family Science Center, and two
new medical-research buildings.[61]

In early 2012, the Duke Cancer Center opened next to Duke Hospital in
Durham.[62] The patient care facility consolidates nearly all of Duke's
outpatient clinical care services.

The Gothic Reading Room of Perkins Library

### West, East, and Central Campuses[edit]

West Campus, considered the main campus of the University, houses the
sophomores and juniors, along with some seniors.[63] Most of the academic and
administrative centers are located there. Main West Campus, with Duke Chapel
at its center, contains the majority of residential quads to the south, while
the main academic quad, library, and Medical Center are to the north. The
campus, spanning 720 acres (2.9 km2), includes Science Drive, which is the
location of science and engineering buildings. The residential quads on West
Campus are Craven Quad, Crowell Quad, Edens Quad, Few Quad, Keohane Quad,
Kilgo Quad, and Wannamaker Quad.[64] Most of the campus eateries and sports
facilities—including the historic basketball stadium, Cameron Indoor
Stadium—are on West Campus.[65]

The main West Campus is dominated by Neo-Gothic architecture. Shown here are
typical residence halls.

East Campus, the original location of Duke after it moved to Durham,[66]
functions as a first-year campus, housing the university's freshmen
dormitories as well as the home of several academic departments. Since the
1995–96 academic year, all freshmen—and only freshmen, except for
upperclassmen serving as Resident Assistants—have lived on East Campus, an
effort to build class unity. The campus encompasses 97 acres (390,000 m2) and
is 1.5 miles (2.4 km) from West Campus.[4] African and African American
Studies, Art History, History, Cultural Anthropology, Literature, Music,
Philosophy, and Women's Studies are housed on East.[66] Programs such as
dance, drama, education, film, and the University Writing Program reside on
East. The self-sufficient East Campus contains the freshmen residence halls, a
dining hall, coffee shop, post office, Lilly Library, Baldwin Auditorium, a
theater, Brodie Gym, tennis courts, several disc golf baskets, and a walking
track as well as several academic buildings.[66] The East Campus dorms are
Alspaugh, Basset, Bell Tower, Blackwell, Brown, East House (formerly known as
Aycock), Epworth, Gilbert-Addoms, Giles, Jarvis, Pegram, Randolph, Southgate,
and Wilson.[67] Separated from downtown by a short walk, the area was the site
of the Women's College from 1930 to 1972.[66]

East Campus, home to all Duke freshmen, features Georgian style architecture.
Baldwin Auditorium can be seen on the right side.

Central Campus, consisting of 122 acres (0.49 km2) between East and West
campuses, houses around 1,000 sophomores, juniors, and seniors, as well as
around 200 professional students in double or quadruple apartments.[68] There
are 26 specific houses, accommodating 22 selective living groups (sororities
and fraternities), 3 independent houses and 1 administrative house.[68]
Central Campus is home to the Nasher Museum of Art, the Freeman Center for
Jewish Life, the Center for Muslim Life, the Duke Police Department, the Duke
Office of Disability Management, a Ronald McDonald House, and administrative
departments such as Duke Residence Life and Housing Services. Central Campus
has several recreation and social facilities such as basketball courts, a sand
volleyball court, a turf field, barbecue grills and picnic shelters, a general
gathering building called "Devil's Den", a restaurant known as "Devil's
Bistro", a convenience store called Uncle Harry's, and the Mill Village. The
Mill Village consists of a gym and group study rooms.[68][69]

### Key places[edit]

Main articles: Duke Lemur Center, Duke University Medical Center, and Sarah P.
Duke Gardens

The Sarah P. Duke Gardens attract more than 300,000 visitors each year.

Duke Forest, established in 1931, consists of 7,044 acres (28.51 km2) in six
divisions, just west of West Campus.[4] The largest private research forest in
North Carolina and one of the largest in the nation,[70] the Duke Forest
demonstrates a variety of forest stand types and silvicultural treatments.
Duke Forest is used extensively for research and includes the Aquatic Research
Facility, Forest Carbon Transfer and Storage (FACTS-I) research facility, two
permanent towers suitable for micrometerological studies, and other areas
designated for animal behavior and ecosystem study.[71] More than 30 miles (48
km) of trails are open to the public for hiking, cycling, and horseback
riding.[72]

The Duke Lemur Center, located inside the Duke Forest, is the world's largest
sanctuary for rare and endangered strepsirrhine primates.[73] Founded in 1966,
the Duke Lemur Center spans 85 acres (34 ha) and contains nearly 300 animals
of 25 different species of lemurs, galagos and lorises.[74]

Entrance to the Medical Center from West Campus

The Sarah P. Duke Gardens, established in the early 1930s, is situated between
West Campus and the apartments of Central Campus. The gardens occupy 55 acres
(22 ha), divided into four major sections:[75] the original Terraces and their
surroundings; the H.L. Blomquist Garden of Native Plants, devoted to flora of
the Southeastern United States; the W.L. Culberson Asiatic Arboretum, housing
plants of Eastern Asia, as well as disjunct species found in Eastern Asia and
Eastern North America; and the Doris Duke Center Gardens. There are five miles
(8.0 km) of allées and paths throughout the gardens.[75]

Duke University Medical Center, bordering Duke's West Campus northern
boundary, combines one of the top-rated hospitals[76] and one of the top-
ranked medical schools[77] in the U.S. Founded in 1930, the Medical Center
occupies 8 million square feet (700,000 m²) in 99 buildings on 210 acres (85
ha).[78]

The Orrin Pilkey research laboratory at the Duke University Marine Lab in
Beaufort, North Carolina.

Duke University Marine Laboratory, located in the town of Beaufort, North
Carolina, is also technically part of Duke's campus. The marine lab is
situated on Pivers Island on the Outer Banks of North Carolina, 150 yards (140
m) across the channel from Beaufort. Duke's interest in the area began in the
early 1930s and the first buildings were erected in 1938.[79] The resident
faculty represent the disciplines of oceanography, marine biology, marine
biomedicine, marine biotechnology, and coastal marine policy and management.
The Marine Laboratory is a member of the National Association of Marine
Laboratories.[79] In May 2014, the newly built Orrin H. Pilkey Marine Research
Laboratory was dedicated.[80]

## Administration and organization[edit]

**School founding**  
---  
**School** |  **Year founded**  
Trinity College of Arts and Sciences |  1838  
Duke University School of Law |  1868  
Graduate School of Duke University |  1926  
Duke Divinity School |  1926  
Duke University School of Medicine |  1930  
Duke University School of Nursing |  1931  
Nicholas School of the Environment |  1938  
Pratt School of Engineering |  1939  
Fuqua School of Business |  1969  
Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School |  2007  
Sanford School of Public Policy |  2009  
Duke Kunshan University |  2012  
  
Duke University has 12 schools and institutes, two of which are for
undergraduates: Trinity College of Arts and Sciences and Pratt School of
Engineering.[4]

Duke's endowment had a market value of $7.9 billion in the fiscal year that
ended June 30, 2017.[3] The University's special academic facilities include
an art museum, several language labs, the Duke Forest, the Duke Herbarium, a
lemur center, a phytotron, a free electron laser, a nuclear magnetic resonance
machine, a nuclear lab, and a marine lab. Duke is a leading participant in the
National Lambda Rail Network and runs a program for gifted children known as
the Talent Identification Program.[81][82]

Entrance to Bostock Library, which opened in the fall of 2005

## Academics[edit]

### Admissions[edit]

Admission to Duke is defined by _U.S. News& World Report_ as "most selective";
Duke received 34,400 applications for the Class of 2021 and admitted 3,174
(9%) of applicants.[83] According to _The Huffington Post_ , Duke was one of
the ten toughest universities in the United States to get into based on
admissions data from 2010.[84] The yield rate (the percentage of accepted
students who choose to attend) for the Class of 2020 was 50.4%.[83] For the
class of 2019, the middle 50% range of SAT scores for the freshmen enrolling
in fall 2015 was 670–760 for critical reading, 690–790 for math, and 690–780
for writing, while the ACT Composite range was 31–34.[85]

From 2001 to 2011, Duke has had the sixth highest number of Fulbright, Rhodes,
Truman, and Goldwater scholarships in the nation among private
universities.[86][87][88][89] The University practices need-blind admissions
and meets 100% of admitted students' demonstrated need. About 50 percent of
all Duke students receive some form of financial aid, which includes need-
based aid, athletic aid, and merit aid. The average need-based grant for the
2015–16 academic year was nearly $45,074.[4] Roughly 60 merit-based
scholarships are also offered, including the Angier B. Duke Memorial
Scholarship, awarded for academic excellence. Other scholarships are geared
toward students in North Carolina, African-American students, and high-
achieving students requiring financial aid.[90]

Part of the Divinity School addition, Goodson Chapel

### Graduate profile[edit]

In 2009, the School of Medicine received 5,166 applications[91] and accepted
approximately 4% of them,[92] while the average GPA and MCAT scores for
accepted students from 2002 through 2009 were 3.74 and 34,
respectively.[93][94] The School of Law accepted approximately 13% of its
applicants for the Class of 2014, while enrolling students had a median GPA of
3.75 and median LSAT of 170.[95]

The University's graduate and professional schools include the Graduate
School, the Pratt School of Engineering, the Nicholas School of the
Environment, the School of Medicine, the Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, the
School of Nursing, the Fuqua School of Business, the School of Law, the
Divinity School, and the Sanford School of Public Policy.[96]

### Undergraduate curriculum[edit]

The West Duke Building on East Campus replaced the destroyed Washington Duke
Building.

Duke offers 46 arts and sciences majors, four engineering majors, 52 Minors
(including two in engineering) and Program II, which allows students to design
their own interdisciplinary major in arts & sciences, and IDEAS, which allows
students to design their own engineering major.[97] Twenty-four certificate
programs also are available.[97] Students pursue a major, and can pursue a
combination of a total of up to three including minors, certificates, and/or a
second major. Eighty-five percent of undergraduates enroll in the Trinity
College of Arts and Sciences, while the rest are in the Pratt School of
Engineering.[98]

Trinity's curriculum operates under the revised version of "Curriculum
2000."[99] It ensures that students are exposed to a variety of "areas of
knowledge" and "modes of inquiry." The curriculum aims to help students
develop critical faculties and judgment by learning how to access, synthesize,
and communicate knowledge effectively. The intent is to assist students in
acquiring perspective on current and historical events, conducting research
and solving problems, and developing tenacity and a capacity for hard and
sustained work.[99] Freshmen can elect to participate in the FOCUS Program,
which allows students to engage in an interdisciplinary exploration of a
specific topic in a small group setting.[100]

Pratt's curriculum is narrower in scope, but still accommodates double majors
in a variety of disciplines. The school emphasizes undergraduate
research—opportunities for hands-on experiences arise through internships,
fellowship programs, and the structured curriculum. More than 27 percent of
Pratt undergraduates study abroad,[101] small compared to about half of
Trinity undergraduates, but much larger than the recent national average for
engineering students (3.2%).[102][103]

### Libraries and museums[edit]

Main articles: Duke University Library System and Nasher Museum of Art

Duke Libraries includes the Perkins, Bostock, and Rubenstein Libraries on West
Campus, the Lilly and Music Libraries on East Campus, the Pearse Memorial
Library at the Duke Marine Lab, and the separately administered libraries
serving the schools of business, divinity, law and medicine.

Duke's art collections are housed at the Nasher Museum of Art on Central
Campus. The museum was designed by Rafael Viñoly and is named for Duke alumnus
and art collector Raymond Nasher. The museum opened in 2005 at a cost of over
$23 million and contains over 13,000 works of art, including works by William
Cordova, Marlene Dumas, Olafur Eliasson, David Hammons, Barkley L. Hendricks,
Christian Marclay, Kerry James Marshall, D Alma Thomas, Hank Willis Thomas,
Bob Thompson, Kara Walker, Andy Warhol, Carrie Mae Weems, Ai Weiwei, Fred
Wilson and Lynette Yiadom Boakye.[104]

### Research[edit]

The Fitzpatrick Center is home to many of Duke's engineering programs.

Duke's research expenditures in the 2015 fiscal year were $1.037 billion, the
seventh largest in the nation.[12] In the 2013 fiscal year, Duke University
Medical Center received $270 million in funding from the National Institutes
of Health (exclusive of contracts and Economic Stimulus Program awards).

Duke's faculty is among the most productive in the nation. Throughout the
school's history, Duke researchers have made breakthroughs, including the
biomedical engineering department's development of the world's first real-
time, three-dimensional ultrasound diagnostic system and the first engineered
blood vessels and stents.[105] In 2015, Paul Modrich shared the Nobel Prize in
Chemistry. In 2012, Robert Lefkowitz along with Brian Kobilka, who is also a
former affiliate, shared the Nobel Prize in chemistry for their work on cell
surface receptors.[106] Duke has pioneered studies involving nonlinear
dynamics, chaos, and complex systems in physics. In May 2006 Duke researchers
mapped the final human chromosome, which made world news as the Human Genome
Project was finally complete.[107] Reports of Duke researchers' involvement in
new AIDS vaccine research surfaced in June 2006.[108] The biology department
combines two historically strong programs in botany and zoology, while one of
the divinity school's leading theologians is Stanley Hauerwas, whom _Time_
named "America's Best Theologian" in 2001.[109] The graduate program in
literature boasts several internationally renowned figures, including Fredric
Jameson,[110] Michael Hardt,[111] and Rey Chow, while philosophers Robert
Brandon and Lakatos Award-winner Alexander Rosenberg contribute to Duke's
ranking as the nation's best program in philosophy of biology, according to
the _Philosophical Gourmet Report_.[112]

The Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index ranked Duke's faculty first in the
nation in the fields of Oncology and Cancer Biology, Biomedical Engineering
and, Applied Economics. The Public Policy, Statistics, Chemistry,
Environmental Science, Medicine and Molecular Genetics departments (among
others) all ranked in the top five. Several other departments including
Electrical Engineering, Mechanical Engineering and Nursing ranked in the top
ten.[113]

### Reputation and rankings[edit]

| University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[114] |  20  
_Forbes_[115] |  8  
_U.S. News& World Report_[116] |  9  
_Washington Monthly_[117] |  12  
Global  
_ARWU_[15] |  26  
_QS_[16] |  21  
_Times_[17] |  17  
_U.S. News& World Report_[118] |  21  
| National Program Rankings[119]  
---  
Program | Ranking  
Biological Sciences | 11  
Business | 12  
Chemistry | 41  
Clinical Psychology | 11  
Computer Science | 25  
Earth Sciences | 42  
Economics | 16  
Engineering | 29  
English | 13  
History | 18  
Law | 10  
Mathematics | 17  
Medicine: Primary Care | 34  
Medicine: Research | 7  
Nursing: Doctorate | 1  
Nursing: Master's | 1  
Nursing–Anesthesia | 3  
Physical Therapy | 10  
Physician Assistant | 1  
Physics | 29  
Political Science | 7  
Psychology | 17  
Public Affairs | 13  
Sociology | 15  
Statistics | 7  
| Global Program Rankings[120]  
---  
Program | Ranking  
Arts & Humanities | 47  
Biology & Biochemistry | 27  
Chemistry | 141  
Clinical Medicine | 5  
Computer Science | 145  
Economics & Business | 13  
Engineering | 140  
Environment/Ecology | 6  
Geosciences | 127  
Immunology | 16  
Materials Science | 142  
Mathematics | 42  
Microbiology | 6  
Molecular Biology & Genetics | 28  
Neuroscience & Behavior | 22  
Pharmacology & Toxicology | 12  
Physics | 72  
Plant & Animal Sciences | 12  
Psychiatry/Psychology | 11  
Social Sciences & Public Health | 16  
  
Built in 1932, Old Chemistry has scientific symbols carved above the main
doorway.

#### Undergraduate rankings[edit]

Duke University is ranked in the top 10 in the following college ranking
publications: _U.S. News& World Report_ (9th), _USA Today_ (3rd),[121]
Kiplinger (4th),[122] _The Wall Street Journal_ (5th overall),[123] Forbes
(8th), _The Washington Post_ (7th),[124] Princeton Review (5th dream
colleges),[125] CollegeFactual (4th)[126] and _Business Insider_ (7th).[127]
In the past twenty years, _U.S. News & World Report_ has placed Duke as high
as 3rd and as low as 10th.[128] In 2014, Duke was ranked 1st in the United
States for majors in economics and psychology,[129][130] and 10th overall for
computer science and engineering.[131] In 2016, _The Washington Post_ ranked
Duke 7th overall based on the accumulated weighted average of the rankings
from _U.S. News & World Report_, _Washington Monthly_ , _Wall Street Journal_
/ _Times Higher Education_ , _Times Higher Education_ (global), _Money_ and
_Forbes_.[124]

In 2016–17, Duke was ranked 19th in the world by _U.S. News & World Report_,
17th in the world by the _Times Higher Education World University Rankings_ ,
14th in the world by _Newsweek_.[132] _QS World University Rankings_ ranked
Duke 21st in the world for its 2017–18 rankings. Duke was ranked 25th best
globally by the _Academic Ranking of World Universities (ARWU)_ in 2016,
focusing on quality of scientific research and the number of Nobel Prizes.The
university also ranks 22nd in the world on the alternative Academic Ranking of
World Universities which excludes Nobel Prize and Fields Medal
indicators.[133] The 2010 report by the _Center for Measuring University
Performance_ puts Duke at 6th in the nation.[31]

The 2011 Global Employability Ranking as published by _The New York Times_
surveyed hundreds of chief executives and chairmen from around the world and
asked them to select the best universities from which they recruited. Duke
placed 13th in the world and 9th in the country.[134][135] Duke also ranked
18th in the world and 8th in the country on _Times Higher Education_ 's global
employability ranking in 2015.[136]

In 2013, Duke enrolled 139 National Merit Scholars, the 6th university in rank
by number.[137] Duke ranks 5th among national universities to have produced
Rhodes, Marshall, Truman, Goldwater, and Udall Scholars.[14] As of 2012, Duke
graduates have received 25 Churchill Scholarships to the University of
Cambridge. Only graduates of Princeton and Harvard have received more
Churchill awards.[138] _Kiplinger_ 's _50 Best Values in Private Universities
2013–14_ ranks Duke at 5th best overall after taking financial aid into
consideration.[139]

According to a study by _Forbes_ , Duke ranks 11th among universities that
have produced billionaires and 1st among universities in the South.[140][141]
A survey by the _Journal of Blacks in Higher Education_ in 2002 ranked Duke as
the #1 university in the country in regard to the integration of African
American students and faculty.[142] According to a poll of recruiters
conducted by _The Wall Street Journal_ , Duke ranks 2nd in terms of producing
the best graduates who have received either a marketing or liberal arts
degree. In a corporate study carried out by _The New York Times_ , Duke's
graduates were shown to be among the most valued in the world,[143] and
_Forbes_ magazine ranked Duke 7th in the world on its list of 'power
factories' in 2012.[144] Duke was ranked 17th on Thomson Reuters' list of the
world's most innovative universities in 2015. The ranking graded universities
based on patent volume and research output among other factors.[145] In 2015,
NPR ranked Duke first on its list of "schools that make financial sense".[146]
' **Time _magazine_ ranked Duke third on its list of the "Best 50 Colleges for
African Americans". The ranking was based on representation, affordability and
post-graduate earnings.[147] In 2016, _Forbes_ ranked Duke sixth on its list
of "Expensive Schools Worth Every Penny".[148] Duke also ranked 7th in the
U.S. on the _Wall Street Journal_ / _Times Higher Education_ College Ranking
in 2016.[149]**

####  Graduate school rankings[edit]

In _U.S. News& World Report_ 's "America's Best Graduate Schools 2018", Duke's
medical school ranked tied for 7th in research[150] and 34th in primary
care.[151] The School of Law was ranked 10th in the 2018 rankings by the same
publication,[152] with Duke's nursing school ranked 1st[153] while the Sanford
School of Public Policy ranked tied for 13th overall for 2017.[154] Among
business schools in the United States, the Fuqua School of Business was ranked
tied for 12th overall by _U.S. News & World Report_ for 2018, while
_BusinessWeek_ ranked its full-time MBA program 1st in the nation in
2014.[155][156] The graduate program for the Pratt School of Engineering was
ranked 30th in the U.S. by _U.S. News & World Report_ in its 2017
rankings.[157]

_Times Higher Education_ ranked the mathematics department tenth in the world
in 2011.[158] Duke's graduate level specialties that are ranked among the top
ten in the nation include areas in the following departments: biological
sciences, medicine, nursing, engineering, law, business, English, history,
physics, statistics, public affairs, physician assistant (ranked #1), clinical
psychology, political science, and sociology.[159] In 2007, Duke was ranked
22nd in the world by Wuhan University's Research Center for Chinese Science
Evaluation. The ranking was based on journal article publication counts and
citation frequencies in over 11,000 academic journals from around the world. A
2012 study conducted by academic analytics ranks Duke fourth in the nation
(behind only Harvard, Stanford, and MIT) in terms of faculty
productivity.[160] In 2013, Duke Law ranked 6th in _Forbes_ magazine's ranking
of law schools whose graduates earn the highest starting salaries.[161] In
2013, Duke's Fuqua School of Business was ranked 6th in terms of graduate
starting salaries by _U.S. News & World Report_. In the same year, a ranking
compiled by the University of Texas at Dallas ranked Fuqua 5th in the world
based on the research productivity of its faculty. The MEM (Masters in
Engineering Management) program has been ranked 3rd in the world by
Eduniversal[162] In 2013, _Forbes_ ranked Duke 4th in the nation in terms of
return on investment (ROI). The ranking used alumni giving as a criterion to
determine which private colleges offer the best returns.[163] In 2017, Above
the Law ranked Duke Law 4th in the nation in its ranking of law schools based
on employment outcomes[164] In 2013, _Business Insider_ ranked Duke's Fuqua
School of Business 5th in the world based on an extensive survey of hiring
professionals.[165] In the same year, _Forbes_ magazine ranked Fuqua 8th in
the country based on return on investment. In 2014, Duke was named the 20th
best global research university according to rankings published by _U.S. News
& World Report_ and the University Ranking by Academic Performance published
by Middle East Technical University. The _U.S. News_ ranking was based on 10
indicators that measure academic research performance and global
reputations.[166] The University Ranking by Academic Performance uses citation
data obtained from Thomson Reuters' Web of Science to rank universities based
on research output.[167]

##  Student life[edit]

### Student body[edit]

Demographics of student body in fall 2016[4][168] | Undergraduate | Graduate |
U.S. Census[169]  
---|---|---|---  
African American | 10% | 5% | 12.2%  
Asian American | 22% | 10% | 4.7%  
Non-Hispanic  
White American | 46% | 49% | 63.7%  
Hispanic American | 8% | 4% | 16.4%  
International | 10% | 25% | N/A  
Other/Unknown | 4% | 4% | 3.0%  
  
Duke's student body consists of 6,449 undergraduates and 8,383 graduate and
professional students (as of fall 2016).[4]

### Residential life[edit]

East Campus' Union building, home to the freshman dining hall also known as
Marketplace

Duke requires its students to live on campus for the first three years of
undergraduate life, except for a small percentage of second-semester juniors
who are exempted by a lottery system.[63] This requirement is justified by the
administration as an effort to help students connect more closely with one
another and sustain a sense of belonging within the Duke community.[170] Thus,
85% of undergraduates live on campus.[171] All freshmen are housed in one of
14 residences on East Campus. These buildings range in occupancy size from 50
(Epworth—the oldest residence hall, built in 1892 as "the Inn") to 190
residents (Gilbert-Addoms).[172][173] Most of these are in the Georgian style
typical of the East Campus architecture. Although the newer residence halls
differ in style, they still relate to East's Georgian heritage. Learning
communities connect the residential component of East Campus with students of
similar academic and social interests.[174] Similarly, students in FOCUS, a
first-year program that features courses clustered around a specific theme,
live together in the same residence hall as other students in their
cluster.[175]

Sophomores, juniors and seniors can choose to reside on either West or Central
campuses, although the majority of undergraduate seniors choose to live off
campus.[176][177] West Campus contains six quadrangles—the four along "Main"
West were built in 1930s, while two newer ones have since been added. Central
Campus provides housing for over 1,000 students in apartment buildings.[178]
All housing on West and Central is organized into about 80 "houses"—sections
of residence halls or clusters of apartments—to which students can return each
year. House residents create their house identities. There are houses of
unaffiliated students, as well as wellness houses and living-learning
communities that adopt a theme such as the arts or foreign languages. There
are also numerous "selective living groups" on campus for students wanting
self-selected living arrangements. SLGs are residential groups similar to
fraternities or sororities, except they are generally co-ed and unaffiliated
with any national organization. Many of them also revolve around a particular
interest such as entrepreneurship, civic engagement or African-American or
Asian culture. Fifteen fraternities and nine sororities also are housed on
campus, primarily on Central. Most of the non-fraternity selective living
groups are coeducational.[179]

### Greek and social life[edit]

Cameron Crazies gathering in K-ville

About 30% of undergraduate men and about 40% of undergraduate women at Duke
are members of fraternities and sororities.[171] Most of the 17
Interfraternity Council recognized fraternity chapters live in sections within
the residence halls. Starting in 2012, the nine Panhellenic Association
sorority chapters decided to live in houses (clusters of apartments) on
Central Campus. Not all sorority members live with their chapters, though, as
membership exceeds house space. Eight National Pan-Hellenic Council
(historically African American) fraternities and sororities also hold chapters
at Duke.[180] In addition, there are seven other fraternities and sororities
that are a part of the Inter-Greek Council, the multicultural Greek umbrella
organization.[181] Duke also has Selective Living Groups, or SLGs, on campus
for students seeking informal residential communities often built around
themes. SLGs are residential groups similar to fraternities or sororities,
except they are generally co-ed and unaffiliated with any national
organizations.[182] Fraternity chapters and SLGs frequently host social events
in their residential sections, which are often open to non-members.[183]

In the late 1990s, a new keg policy was put into effect that requires all
student groups to purchase kegs through Duke Dining Services. According to
administrators, the rule change was intended as a way to ensure compliance
with alcohol consumption laws as well as to increase on-campus safety.[184]
Some students saw the administration's increasingly strict policies as an
attempt to alter social life at Duke.[185] As a result, off-campus parties at
rented houses became more frequent in subsequent years as a way to avoid Duke
policies. Many of these houses were situated in the midst of family
neighborhoods, prompting residents to complain about excessive noise and other
violations. Police have responded by breaking up parties at several houses,
handing out citations, and occasionally arresting party-goers.[186] In the
mid-to-late 2000s (decade), the administration made a concerted effort to help
students re-establish a robust, on-campus social life and has worked with
numerous student groups, especially the Duke University Union, to feature a
wide array of events and activities. In March 2006, the university purchased
15 houses in the Trinity Park area that Duke students had typically rented and
subsequently sold them to individual families in an effort to encourage
renovations to the properties and to reduce off-campus partying in the midst
of residential neighborhoods.[187][188]

Duke athletics, particularly men's basketball, traditionally serves as a
significant component of student life. Duke's students have been recognized as
some of the most creative and original fans in all of collegiate
athletics.[189] Students, often referred to as Cameron Crazies, show their
support of the men's basketball team by "tenting" for home games against key
Atlantic Coast Conference rivals, especially University of North Carolina at
Chapel Hill (UNC).[190] Because tickets to all varsity sports are free to
students, they line up for hours before each game, often spending the night on
the sidewalk. For a mid-February game against UNC, some of the most eager
students might even begin tenting before spring classes begin.[191] The total
number of participating tents is capped at 100 (each tent can have up to 12
occupants), though interest is such that it could exceed that number if space
permitted.[192] Tenting involves setting up and inhabiting a tent on the grass
near Cameron Indoor Stadium, an area known as Krzyzewskiville, or K-Ville for
short. There are different categories of tenting based on the length of time
and number of people who must be in the tent.[192] At night, K-Ville often
turns into the scene of a party or occasional concert. The men's basketball
coach, Mike Krzyzewski, occasionally buys pizza for the inhabitants of the
tent village.[193]

### Activities[edit]

#### Student organizations[edit]

Duke's West Campus Union building has restaurants, offices, and some
administrative departments. _The Chronicle'_ s editorial office, the Mary Lou
Williams Center for Black Culture, and the Center for LGBT Life are all
located in the Union.

More than 400 student clubs and organizations operate on Duke's campus.[194]
These include numerous student government, special interest, and service
organizations.[195] Duke Student Government (DSG) charters and provides most
of the funding for other student groups and represents students' interests
when dealing with the administration.[196] The Duke University Union (DUU) is
the school's primary programming organization, serving a center of social,
cultural, intellectual and recreational life.[197] Cultural groups are
provided funding directly from the university via the Multicultural Center as
well as other institutional funding sources. One of the most popular
activities on campus is competing in sports. Duke has 37 sports clubs, and
several intramural teams that are officially recognized. Performance groups
such as Hoof 'n' Horn, the country's second-oldest student-run musical theater
organization, a cappella groups, student bands, and theater organizations are
also prominent on campus.[198] As of the 2016–2017 school year, there are
seven a cappella groups recognized by the Duke University A Cappella Council:
Deja Blue, Lady Blue, Out of the Blue, the Pitchforks, Rhythm & Blue,
Something Borrowed Something Blue, and Speak of the Devil.[199] The Duke
University mock trial team won the national championship in 2012.[200] The
Duke University Student Dining Advisory Committee provides guidance to the
administration on issues regarding student dining, life, and restaurant
choices.

Cultural groups on campus include the Asian Students Association, Blue Devils
United (the student lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender group), Black
Student Alliance, Diya (South Asian Association), Jewish Life at Duke, Mi
Gente (Latino Student Association), International Association/International
Council, Muslim Student Association, Native American Student Coalition, Newman
Catholic Student Center, Languages Dorm, and Students of the
Caribbean.[194][201]

#### Civic engagement[edit]

The von der Heyden Pavilion is a popular place among students for gathering
and studying.

More than 75 percent of Duke students pursue service-learning opportunities in
Durham and around the world through DukeEngage and other programs that advance
the university's mission of "knowledge in service to society." Launched in
2007, DukeEngage provides full funding for select Duke undergraduates who wish
to pursue an immersive summer of service in partnership with a U.S. or
international community. As of summer 2013, more than 2,400 Duke students had
volunteered through DukeEngage in 75 nations on six continents. Duke students
have created more than 30 service organizations in Durham and the surrounding
area. Examples include a weeklong camp for children of cancer patients (Camp
Kesem) and a group that promotes awareness about sexual health, rape
prevention, alcohol and drug use, and eating disorders (Healthy Devils). The
Duke-Durham Neighborhood Partnership, started by the Office of Community
Affairs in 1996, attempts to address major concerns of local residents and
schools by leveraging university resources.[202] Another community project,
"Scholarship with a Civic Mission", is a joint program between the Hart
Leadership Program and the Kenan Institute for Ethics.[203] Another program
includes Project CHILD, a tutoring program involving 80 first-year volunteers;
and an after-school program for at-risk students in Durham that was started
with $2.25 million grant from the Kellogg Foundation in 2002.[204] Two
prominent civic engagement pre-orientation programs also exist for incoming
freshmen: Project CHANGE and Project BUILD. Project CHANGE is a free weeklong
program co-sponsored by the Kenan Institute for Ethics and the Duke Women's
Center with the focus on ethical leadership and social change in the Durham
community; students are challenged in a variety of ways and work closely with
local non-profits.[205] Project BUILD is a freshman volunteering group that
dedicates 3,300 hours of service to a variety of projects such as schools,
Habitat for Humanity, food banks, substance rehabilitation centers, homeless
shelters. Some courses at Duke incorporate service as part of the curriculum
to augment material learned in class such as in psychology or education
courses (known as service learning courses).[206]

#### Student media[edit]

See also: The Chronicle (Duke University), Cable 13, and WXDU

_The Chronicle_ , Duke's independent undergraduate daily newspaper, has been
continually published since 1905 and now, along with its website, has a
readership of about 70,000.[207] Its editors are responsible for selecting the
term "Blue Devil". The newspaper won Best in Show in the tabloid division at
the 2005 Associated Collegiate Press National College Media Convention.[208]
Cable 13, established in 1976, is Duke's student-run television station. It is
a popular activity for students interested in film production and media.[209]
WXDU-FM, licensed in 1983, is the university's nationally recognized,
noncommercial FM radio station, operated by student and community
volunteers.[210][211]

_The Rival Duke_[212] is an online-only, student run publication. The three
sections, campus, culture, and current, feature opinion and commentary.

##  Duke Alumni Association[edit]

**Duke Alumni Association** (DAA) is an alumni association automatically
available to all Duke graduates. Benefits include alumni events, a global
network of regional DAA alumni chapters, educational and travel opportunities
and communications such as The Blue Note, social media and _Duke Magazine_. It
provides access to the Duke Lemur Center, Nasher Museum of Art, Duke Rec
Centers and other campus facilities.[213]

## _Duke Magazine_ [edit]

_**Duke Magazine**_ , an alumni magazine, is the university's flagship vehicle
for stories about the Duke community.[214] It has been published five-six
times a year by the Office of Alumni Affairs since 2002.[215]

## Athletics[edit]

Main article: Duke Blue Devils

See also: Carolina–Duke rivalry

|

This section **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(May 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
The Duke University Athletic Association chairs 27 sports and more than 650
student-athletes. The Blue Devils are members of the National Collegiate
Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I level, the Football Bowl Subdivision
(FBS) and Atlantic Coast Conference. Men's sports include baseball,
basketball, cross country, fencing, football, golf, lacrosse, soccer, swimming
& diving, tennis, track & field and wrestling; women's sports include
basketball, cross country, fencing, field hockey, golf, lacrosse, rowing,
soccer, softball, swimming & diving, tennis, track & field and
volleyball.[216]

Duke's teams have won 16 NCAA team national championships—the women's golf
team has won six (1999, 2002, 2005, 2006, 2007 and 2014), the men's basketball
team has won five (1991, 1992, 2001, 2010, and 2015), the men's lacrosse team
has won three (2010, 2013, and 2014), and the men's soccer (1986) and women's
tennis (2009) teams have won one each.[217]

Duke Blue Devils mascot. This is an older design; an updated mascot was
introduced in 2008.

Duke consistently ranks among the top in the National Association of
Collegiate Directors of Athletics (NACDA) Directors' Cup, an overall measure
of an institution's athletic success. For Division I in 2015, Duke finished
20th overall and fifth in the ACC. The Blue Devils have finished within the
top 10 six times since the inception of the Cup in 1993–94. Also, Athletic
Director Kevin White earned multiple awards in 2014, including the National
Football Foundation's John L. Toner Award[218] and the _Sport Business
Journal_ 's Athletic Director of the Year award.

Duke has won 130 ACC Championships since claiming football, men's lacrosse and
men's golf in the league's first year in 1953–54 and counting Duke's ACC
Championships in men's basketball, men's golf and women's golf in 2016–17.

On the academic front, nine Duke varsity athletics programs registered a
perfect 1,000 score in the NCAA's multi-year Academic Progress Report (APR)
released in April 2016.[219]

In all, Duke totaled the highest APR score among ACC institutions in 12 of the
league's sports – baseball (993), men's cross country (1000), women's cross
country (1000), women's fencing (1000), football (995), men's golf (1000),
women's golf (1000), women's lacrosse (1000), men's tennis (1000), women's
track and field (1000), volleyball (1000) and wrestling (977). Eight
additional Duke programs ranked among the ACC's top three in their respective
sports.

Since the beginning of the 2011–12 school year, Duke has had 2,378 ACC Honor
Roll members, 67 CoSIDA Academic All-District selections, 33 CoSIDA Academic
All-America picks, 24 ACC Postgraduate scholarship winners and 22 ACC Scholar
Athletes of the Year.

### Men's basketball[edit]

Main article: Duke Blue Devils men's basketball

Duke's Cameron Indoor Stadium

Duke's men's basketball team is one of the nation's most successful basketball
programs. The team has captured five National Championships (tied for third
place all time), while competing in 16 Final Fours and 12 Championship games.
The program's home facility is historic Cameron Indoor Stadium, considered one
of the top venues in the nation.

The team's success has been particularly outstanding over the past 30 years
under coach Mike Krzyzewski (often simply called "Coach K"). The Blue Devils
are the only team to win five national championships since the NCAA Tournament
field was expanded to 64 teams in 1985, 11 Final Fours in the past 25 years,
and eight of nine ACC tournament championships from 1999 to 2006. Duke's 2017
NCAA tournament appearance ended in an upset to the University of South
Carolina. Coach K has also coached the USA men's national basketball team
since 2006 and led the team to Olympic golds in 2008, 2012, and 2016. His
teams also won World Championship gold in 2010 and 2014. More than 20 Duke
players have been selected in the NBA Draft Lottery. In 1999, Duke became the
first program in the history of the NBA Draft to have four players from the
same school selected in the first round. Overall, 32 Duke players[220] have
been selected in the first round of the NBA Draft in the Coach K era. More
than 20 Duke[220] players have been selected in the NBA Draft Lottery. In
1999, Duke became the first program in the history of the NBA Draft to have
four players from the same school selected in the first round.

Wallace Wade Stadium

### Football[edit]

Main article: Duke Blue Devils football

The Blue Devils have won seven ACC Football Championships, have had ten
players honored as ACC Player of the Year (the most in the ACC),[221] and have
had three Pro Football Hall of Famers come through the program (second in the
ACC to only Miami's four). The Blue Devils have produced 11 College Football
Hall of Famers, which is tied for the 2nd most in the ACC. Duke has also won
18 total conference championships (7 ACC, 9 Southern Conference, and 1 Big
Five Conference). That total is tied with Clemson for the highest in the
ACC.[222]

The most famous Duke football season came in 1938,[223] when Wallace Wade
coached the "Iron Dukes" that shut out all regular season opponents; only
three teams in history can claim such a feat.[224] That same year, Duke made
their first Rose Bowl appearance, where they lost 7–3 when USC scored a
touchdown in the final minute of the game.[223] Wade's Blue Devils lost
another Rose Bowl to Oregon State in 1942, this one held at Duke's home
stadium due to the attack on Pearl Harbor, which resulted in the fear that a
large gathering on the West Coast might be in range of Japanese aircraft
carriers.[225] The football program proved successful in the 1950s and 1960s,
winning six of the first ten ACC football championships from 1953 to 1962
under coach Bill Murray; the Blue Devils would not win the ACC championship
again until 1989 under coach Steve Spurrier.[226]

David Cutcliffe was brought in prior to the 2008 season, and amassed more wins
in his first season than the previous three years combined. The 2009 team won
5 of 12 games, and was eliminated from bowl contention in the next-to-last
game of the season.[227] Mike MacIntyre, the defensive coordinator, was named
2009 Assistant Coach of the Year by the American Football Coaches Association
(AFCA).[228]

While the football team has struggled at times on the field, the graduation
rate of its players is consistently among the highest among Division I FBS
schools. Duke's high graduation rates have earned it more AFCA Academic
Achievement Awards than any other institution.[229]

In 2012, the football team became bowl-eligible for the first time since the
1994 season. The Blue Devils were invited to play in the Belk Bowl in
Charlotte, but lost to Big East Conference co-champion the Cincinnati Bearcats
48–34.

In 2013, the team posted a school record 10 wins including wins over #14
Virginia Tech and #23 Miami. The season culminated in a Coastal Division
Championship and a narrow loss to Texas A&M in the Chick-Fil-A Bowl.

For the 2014 season, Duke finished 9–3, 5–3 (ACC) and earned a trip to the Sun
Bowl,[230] where the Blue Devils lost to the Pac-12's Arizona State 36–31. In
spring 2015, the Detroit Lions drafted Duke offensive guard Laken
Tomlinson[231] in the first round of the NFL draft. The Washington Redskins
drafted wide receiver Jamison Crowder[232] in the fourth round of the draft.

### Track and field[edit]

In 2003 Norm Ogilvie was promoted to Director of Track and Field, and has led
athletes to over 60 individual ACC championships, and 81 All-America
selections, along with most of the track and field records being broken during
his tenure.[233] A new facility, the Morris Williams Track and Field Stadium,
opened in 2015.[234]

## Notable people[edit]

Main article: List of Duke University people

Duke's active alumni base of more than 145,000 devote themselves to the
university through organizations and events such as the annual Reunion Weekend
and Homecoming.[235] There are 75 Duke clubs in the U.S. and 38 such
international clubs.[236] For the 2008–09 fiscal year, Duke tied for third in
alumni giving rate among U.S. colleges and universities according to _U.S.
News& World Report_.[237] Based on statistics compiled by PayScale in 2011,
Duke alumni rank seventh in mid-career median salary among all U.S. colleges
and universities.[238] A number of alumni have made significant contributions
in the fields of government, law, science, academia, business, arts,
journalism, and athletics, among others.

###  Government[edit]

Richard Nixon, 37th President of the United States graduated with a law degree
in 1937.[239] Former U.S. Senator and Secretary of Transportation Elizabeth
Dole,[240] 33rd President of Chile Ricardo Lagos,[241] former U.S. Secretary
of Commerce Juanita M. Kreps,[242] congressman and three-time presidential
candidate Ron Paul,[243] U.S. Secretary of Veterans Affairs and former Chief
of Staff of the United States Army Eric Shinseki,[244] and the first United
States Chief Performance Officer Jeffrey Zients[245] and Chairman of the Joint
Chiefs of Staff Martin Dempsey are among the most notable alumni with
involvement in politics and government.

### Academia and research[edit]

Duke graduates who have won the Nobel Prize in Physics include Hans Dehmelt
for his development of the ion trap technique,[246] Robert Richardson for his
discovery of superfluidity in helium-3,[247] and Charles Townes for his work
on quantum electronics.[248] Other alumni in research and academia include
Turing Award winners Fred Brooks,[249] Edmund M. Clarke[250] and John
Cocke,[251] Templeton Prize winning physicist and religion scholar Ian
Barbour,[252] MacArthur Award recipient Paul Farmer,[253] and former Dean of
the Graduate School at Princeton Theodore Ziolkowski.[254] Duke professor
Robert J. Lefkowitz shared the 2012 Nobel Prize in Chemistry and Ingrid
Daubechies, currently a James B. Duke professor of mathematics, served as the
first woman president of the International Mathematical Union and is known for
pioneering work on Wavelets.

### Journalism[edit]

Prominent journalists include talk show host Charlie Rose,[255] _The
Washington Post_ sports writer John Feinstein,[256] Chief Washington
Correspondent for CNBC and _The Wall Street Journal_ writer John Harwood,[257]
CBS News President Sean McManus,[258] chief legal correspondent for _Good
Morning America_ Dan Abrams,[259][260] and CNN anchor and senior correspondent
for _The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer_ Judy Woodruff.[261] Basketball analysts and
commentators include Jay Bilas,[262][263] Mike Gminski,[264] Jim
Spanarkel,[265] and Jay Williams.[266] Magazine editors include Rik Kirkland
of _Fortune_[267] and Clay Felker, founder of _New York Magazine._[268]

###  Literature[edit]

In the area of literature, William Styron won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction
in 1968 for his novel _The Confessions of Nat Turner_ and is well known for
his 1979 novel _Sophie's Choice._[269] Anne Tyler also received the Pulitzer
Prize for her 1988 novel _Breathing Lessons_.[270] Additionally, Elizabeth A.
Fenn won the Pulitzer Prize for History in 2015. Other acclaimed writers
include John W. Campbell and Reynolds Price.

In the visual arts realm, Annabeth Gish[271] (actress in the _X-Files_ and
_The West Wing_ ), Ken Jeong[272] (actor in _The Hangover_ and _Community_ ),
Retta[273] (actress and comedian), Jared Harris (actor in _Mad Men_ ), Randall
Wallace[274] (screenwriter, producer, and director, _Braveheart_ , _Pearl
Harbor_ , _We Were Soldiers_ ), Mike Posner[275] (singer, songwriter, and
producer, "Cooler Than Me", "Please Don't Go", "I Took A Pill in Ibiza"),
David Hudgins[276] (television writer and producer, _Everwood_ , _Friday Night
Lights_ ) and Robert Yeoman (cinematographer, _The Grand Budapest Hotel_ )
headline the list.

### Business[edit]

The current or recent president, CEO, or chairman of each of the following
Fortune 500 companies is a Duke alumnus: Apple (Tim Cook),[277] BB&T (John A.
Allison IV),[278] Boston Scientific Corporation (Peter Nicholas),[279]
Chesapeake Energy (Aubrey McClendon),[280] Cisco Systems (John Chambers),
General Motors (Rick Wagoner),[281] JPMorgan Chase (Steven Black),[282]
Medtronic (William A. Hawkins),[283] Morgan Stanley (John J. Mack),[284]
Norfolk Southern (David R. Goode),[285] Northwest Airlines (Gary L.
Wilson),[286] PepsiCo (Karl von der Heyden),[287] Procter & Gamble (David S.
Taylor),[288] Pfizer (Edmund T. Pratt, Jr.),[289] The Bank of New York Mellon
(Gerald Hassell),[290] and Wachovia (Robert K. Steel).[291] Kevin Martin was
Chairman of the FCC,[292] and Rex Adams serves as the Chairman of PBS.[293]
Another alumna, Melinda Gates,[294] is the co-founder of the $31.9 billion
Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the nation's wealthiest charitable
foundation.[295][296] Some startups founded by Duke alumni include Box (Dylan
Smith) and Yext (Howard Lerman).

### Athletics[edit]

Management and ownership of professional athletic franchises include Adam
Silver (NBA commissioner), John P. Angelos[297] (Executive Vice President of
the Baltimore Orioles), Aubrey McClendon[298] (former partial owner of the
Oklahoma City Thunder), John Canning, Jr.[299] (co-owner of Milwaukee
Brewers), Danny Ferry[300] (former general manager of the Cleveland
Cavaliers), Stephen Pagliuca[301] (co-owner of Boston Celtics), and Jeffrey
Vinik[302] (owner of the Tampa Bay Lightning).

Finally, several athletes have become stars at the professional level,
especially in basketball's NBA. Shane Battier, Corey Maggette, Elton Brand,
Carlos Boozer, Luol Deng, Christian Laettner, Bobby Hurley, Grant Hill, Kyrie
Irving and J. J. Redick are among the most famous.[303]

Men's basketball coach Mike Krzyzewski led the USA men's team to three gold
medals[304] (2008, 2012, 2016), and Abigail Johnston won a silver medal in
synchronized diving at the 2012 Olympic Games while an undergraduate at Duke
and competed in the 2016 Olympic Games while attending Duke Medical
School.[305]

## See also[edit]

  * ACC portal

  * List of colleges and universities in North Carolina

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ King, William E. "Shield, Seal and Motto". Duke University Archives. Retrieved November 30, 2016. 
  2. **^** "About – Duke Divinity School". Duke Divinity School. Archived from the original on July 2, 2011. Retrieved  July 4, 2011. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ As of June 30, 2017. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ _**l**_ _**m**_ _**n**_ _**o**_ "Duke at a Glance" (PDF). Duke University's Office of News & Communications. Retrieved January 25, 2017. 
  5. **^** "Duke at a Glance" (PDF). 2016-11-15. Retrieved 2017-05-22. 
  6. **^** "A First Day as President-Elect is a Memorable One". 2016-12-03. Retrieved  2017-07-01. 
  7. **^** "The Origin of Duke Blue". Duke University Archives. Retrieved  March 1, 2017. 
  8. **^** "Color Palette". Duke University. Retrieved  March 1, 2017. 
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ King, William E. "Duke University: A Brief Narrative History". Duke University Archives. Retrieved May 23, 2011. 
  10. **^** "For U.S. Universities, the Rich Get Richer Faster". The Wall Street Journal. 2015. Retrieved  April 16, 2015. 
  11. **^** "Duke has 'quite a bit of money,' but challenges exist, administrators say". The Chronicle. 2017. Retrieved  December 3, 2017. 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Rankings by total R&D expenditures". National Science Foundation.  
  13. **^** "Highly Cited Researchers". Thomson Reuters. 2014. Retrieved  August 3, 2014. 
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Top Scholar Rankings: 1986–2015 Archived September 5, 2015, at the Wayback Machine.. _Kansas State University_ , 2015. Retrieved September 16, 2015.
  15. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ https://www.nccommerce.com/Portals/47/Documents/1Manufacturing%20and%20NonManufacturing%20Employers_2013.pdf
  19. **^** https://www.forbes.com/best-employers/list/
  20. **^** http://www.chronicle.com/interactives/greatcolleges15?cid=at
  21. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "A Chronology of Significant Events in Duke University's History". Duke University Archives. Retrieved  May 23, 2011. 
  22. **^** Pyatt, Tim (November–December 2006). "Retrospective: Selections from University Archives". **92** (6). Duke Office of Alumni Affairs. Archived from the original on May 15, 2011. Retrieved  May 23, 2011. 
  23. **^** Duke University Chapel – History Archived May 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. _Friends of Duke Chapel._ Retrieved July 5, 2011.
  24. **^** King, William, E. (1997). "Washington Duke and the Education of Women". _University Archives_. David M. Rubenstein Rare Book  & Manuscript Library. Retrieved March 24, 2015. 
  25. **^** "Navy V-12 Program". Durham, North Carolina: Duke University. 2011. Archived from the original on March 5, 2011. Retrieved  September 28, 2011. 
  26. **^** Marianne Twu (2010). "Slavery and Segregation". Duke Human Rights Center. Retrieved January 8, 2016. 
  27. **^** Duke Annual Report 2000/2001-Interdisciplinary Archived September 16, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke University Annual Report_ , 2001. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  28. **^** Rogalski, Jim. Breaking the Barrier: A History of African-Americans at Duke University School of Medicine. _Inside DUMC_ , February 20, 2006. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  29. **^** Mock, Geoffrey. Duke's Black Faculty Initiative Reaches Goal Early. _Duke University Office of News and Communication_ , November 21, 2002. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  30. **^** Academic, Cultural and Research Centers Archived March 4, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke University Admissions._ Retrieved April 3, 2011.
  31. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Top American Research Universities" (PDF). Center for Measuring University Performance. 2010. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 16, 2013. Retrieved February 25, 2011. 
  32. **^** Oleniacz, Laura (August 8, 2014). "Duke Kunshan University campus in China nears opening". The Herald-Sun. Archived from the original on February 14, 2015. Retrieved April 6, 2015. 
  33. **^** Duke University Partners with National University of Singapore to Establish New Medical School Archived September 28, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. Duke Medicine News and Communications. Retrieved August 15, 2011.
  34. **^** "Duke Forward hits $2 billion mark". The Herald-Sun. March 7, 2014. Archived from the original on March 28, 2014. Retrieved  April 6, 2015. 
  35. **^** Engineering Student Is One of Three Duke Rhodes Scholarship Winners Archived October 8, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. Duke Engineering News. Retrieved August 22, 2011.
  36. **^** The Rhodes Scholarships – Past Scholars. The Rhodes Trust. Retrieved August 22, 2011.
  37. **^** http://today.duke.edu/2015/11/rhodes2015
  38. **^** Duke researchers unveil 'invisibility cloak' device. _Chicago Tribune_ , October 20, 2006. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  39. **^** "Duke University's Relation to the Methodist Church: the basics". Duke University. 2002. Archived from the original on June 12, 2010. Retrieved  March 27, 2010. Duke University has historical, formal, on-going, and symbolic ties with Methodism, but is an independent and non-sectarian institution. 
  40. **^** _Separated brethren: a review of Protestant, Anglican, Eastern Orthodox & other religions in the United States_. Our Sunday Visitor. 2002. ISBN 978-1-931709-05-7. 
  41. **^** "Duke University". International Association of Methodist-related Schools, Colleges, and Universities (IAMSCU). Archived from the original on October 6, 2007. Retrieved  June 30, 2007. 
  42. **^** "United Methodist schools score high in rankings". The United Methodist Church. Archived from the original on July 1, 2012. Retrieved  June 30, 2007. 
  43. **^** "Duke University Removes Robert E. Lee Statue From Chapel Entrance". _NPR.org_. Retrieved  2017-08-24. 
  44. **^** "Duke University removes damaged Robert E. Lee statue". _Washington Post_. Archived from the original on August 25, 2017. Retrieved  August 24, 2017. 
  45. **^** "Duke University removes contentious Confederate statue after vandalism". Reuters. 2017-08-19. Retrieved  2017-08-24. 
  46. **^** "Robert E. Lee statue removed at Duke". _New York Post_. Associated Press. 2017-08-19. Retrieved  2017-08-24. 
  47. **^** Civil rights protesters confess to defacing Confederate statues. New York Post. Retrieved August 24, 2017.
  48. **^** "Duke University: Office of the University Architect Collegiate Gothic Style". Duke Office of the University Architect. Archived from the original on March 4, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  49. **^** C2005 Fall Writing 20–89. _Duke Online Course Synopsis Handbook._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  50. **^** Julian Abele, Architect. _Duke University Archives._ Retrieved June 21, 2011.
  51. **^** "America's most beautiful college campuses", _Travel+Leisure_ (September, 2011)
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ King, William E. DukeStone. _Duke University Historical Notes._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  53. **^** Duke Chapel Durham. _NBC17 News._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  54. **^** Ramkumar, Amrith (June 15, 2015). "Wallace Wade renovations on track as Cameron Indoor addition begins". _The Chronicle_. Retrieved  August 11, 2016. 
  55. **^** "Environment Hall – Nicholas School". Archived from the original on October 11, 2016. Retrieved  August 11, 2016. 
  56. **^** "Dedication Ceremony for the New Wing of the Christine Siegler Pearson Building". March 26, 2014. Retrieved  August 11, 2016. 
  57. **^** "Rubenstein Library Renovation". _blogs.library.duke.edu_. Archived from the original on July 6, 2016. Retrieved  August 11, 2016. 
  58. **^** "Construction Highlights Duke's Summer". Retrieved  August 11, 2016. 
  59. **^** "New Awards for Historic Baldwin Auditorium". Retrieved  August 11, 2016. 
  60. **^** Mueller, Jared. Campus reaps benefits of facilities boom. _The Chronicle_ , November 1, 2005. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  61. **^** Dagger, Jacob. Stones, Bricks, and Mortar: Building for Success. _Duke Magazine_ , March–April 2006. Retrieved January 12, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  62. **^** Muoio, Danielle; Spector, Julian (February 23, 2012). "Cancer Center opens this week". _The Chronicle_. Retrieved  August 11, 2016. 
  63. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ RLHS: Housing. _Duke Residence Life and Housing Services._ Retrieved May 3, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  64. **^** "Duke University West Campus Quads".  
  65. **^** Cameron Indoor Stadium. _Duke University._ Retrieved June 21, 2011. Archived January 13, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "East Campus: History of East Campus". Duke University Libraries. Archived from the original on March 5, 2011. Retrieved  June 21, 2011. 
  67. **^** "Duke University East Campus Quads".  
  68. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Duke University Central Campus". Duke University.  
  69. **^** Central Campus. _Duke Student Affairs._ Retrieved May 3, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  70. **^** 75 Years of Duke Forest. _Duke Today_ , October 6, 2006. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
  71. **^** Duke Forest. _Duke Forest._ Retrieved June 21, 2011. Archived August 6, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
  72. **^** Duke University Admissions: Duke Forest. _Duke Admissions._ Retrieved May 3, 2011.
  73. **^** Duke's Secret in the Forest Archived November 1, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. _The Herald-Sun_ , 2010. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
  74. **^** Lillard, Margaret. Duke lemur center has new research focus. _The Associated Press_ , June 4, 2006. Retrieved June 21, 2011.
  75. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ The Sarah P. Duke Gardens History. _Duke Gardens._ Retrieved July 5, 2011.
  76. **^** Duke University Medical Center. _U.S. News & World Report_, 2011. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
  77. **^** Best Medical Schools: Research Archived April 15, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. _U.S. News & World Report_, 2011. Retrieved July 18, 2011.
  78. **^** DukeMedNews Archived March 4, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.. _DukeMed News_ , July 30, 2010. Retrieved July 30, 2011.
  79. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Duke University Marine Lab. _Duke Marine Lab._ Retrieved June 21, 2011.
  80. **^** "Marine Lab's Newest Research Building Showcases Sustainable Coastal Design". Duke University. May 12, 2014. Archived from the original on June 6, 2014.  
  81. **^** "UCAR joins National Lambda Rail". _SCD News._ Retrieved June 12, 2011.
  82. **^** Duke Tip Academy Archived May 23, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke TIP._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  83. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "DUKE OFFERS ADMISSION TO MORE THAN 2,300 HIGH SCHOOL SENIORS". Duke University. Retrieved  January 21, 2017. 
  84. **^** Finnegan, Leah (April 6, 2010). "The HARDEST Schools To Get Into 2010 (PHOTOS)". _Huffington Post_. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  85. **^** "Duke University Common Data Set 2015–2016" (PDF). Duke University. Retrieved January 21, 2017. 
  86. **^** Recently Elected U.S. Rhodes Scholars. _The Rhodes Trust._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  87. **^** "Duke Gates Scholar 2007". The Gates Cambridge Scholarship. Retrieved  July 4, 2011. 
  88. **^** Twenty-two Duke Graduates, Grad Students Receive Fulbright Scholarships. _Duke News & Communications_, September 26, 2005. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  89. **^** Dunning, Denise. Trinity Juniors receive Truman scholarships. _The Chronicle_ , March 22, 1996. Retrieved May 23, 2011. Archived March 5, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
  90. **^** Financial Aid Statistics Archived May 6, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke Financial Aid._ Retrieved May 3, 2011.
  91. **^** Medical School: Duke University. Archived October 4, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. Duke University Health System. Retrieved August 25, 2011.
  92. **^** Duke University School of Medicine. Top Medical Schools in U.S.A., 2011. Retrieved August 25, 2011.
  93. **^** Education: Duke University School of Medicine. Duke School of Medicine, 2010. Retrieved August 25, 2011.
  94. **^** Duke University School of Medicine. _Admission Hub_ , 2007. Retrieved July 9, 2011.
  95. **^** Duke Law: Class Profiles, _Duke Law Admissions_ , 2009. Retrieved July 24, 2011.
  96. **^** Duke homepage – Schools tab, _Duke University._ Retrieved June 12, 2011.
  97. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Majors, Minors & Schools. _Duke Admissions_ , 2012. Retrieved November 26, 2012.
  98. **^** About Pratt. _Pratt School of Engineering._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  99. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Curriculum 2000: Index of the Report Archived June 10, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke University._ Retrieved June 12, 2011.
  100. **^** Focus: Introduction: What is Focus?. _Duke University._ Retrieved June 12, 2011. Archived April 20, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  101. **^** Degrees Offered at Pratt. _Pratt School of Engineering._ Retrieved May 1, 2011. Archived September 7, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.
  102. **^** "Engineers face curricular challenges in study abroad".   _The Chronicle._ Retrieved February 23, 2011.
  103. **^** Loftus, Margaret. A Broader Perspective. _American Society for Engineering Education_ , January 2006. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  104. **^** Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University. _Nasher Museum of Art at Duke University_. Retrieved June 21, 2011.
  105. **^** Research Duke BME. _Pratt School of Engineering._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  106. **^** "Robert Lefkowitz Shares Nobel Prize in Chemistry". _Duke Today_. Retrieved  September 2, 2015. 
  107. **^** "Final genome 'chapter' published". _BBC News._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  108. **^** "AIDS Vaccine Research Offers New Insights On Survival". _Medical News Today_ , June 13, 2006. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  109. **^** Elshtain, Jean Bethke. An Honored Prophet: Stanley Hauerwas: "America's Best Theologian". _Touchstone Journal._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  110. **^** Fredric Jameson, William A. Lane Professor of Comparative Literature and Romance Studies. _Duke University._ Retrieved June 12, 2011.
  111. **^** Vulliamy, Ed. The Observer Profile: Michael Hardt. _The Observer_ , July 15, 2001. Retrieved June 12, 2011.
  112. **^** Philosophical Gourmet Report: Breakdown: Philosophy of Biology. _Philosophical Gourmet Report._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  113. **^** "Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index". _Chronicle_. Archived from the original on February 3, 2014.  
  114. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  115. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  116. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  117. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  118. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  119. **^** "Duke University – U.S. News Best Grad School Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 2 June 2017. 
  120. **^** "Duke University – U.S. News Best Global University Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 7 July 2017. 
  121. **^** "UPenn named best college nationwide for 2015". _USA TODAY College_. Retrieved  September 2, 2015. 
  122. **^** "Kiplinger's Best College Values". Retrieved  April 9, 2017. 
  123. **^** "College Rankings". _The Wall Street Journal_. 2016. Retrieved  September 30, 2016. 
  124. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Here's a New College Ranking, Based Entirely on Other College Rankings". _The Washington Post_.  
  125. **^** "2015 College Hopes & Worries Survey Report". The Princeton Review. Retrieved  March 21, 2016. 
  126. **^** "Best College: Nationwide". College Factual.  
  127. **^** "The top 25 colleges in America". _Business Insider_. August 18, 2015.  
  128. **^** Duke Places Eighth in U.S. News Ranking. _Duke University News & Communications_, August 18, 2006. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  129. **^** "Top colleges for a major in economics". _USA TODAY College_. Retrieved  September 2, 2015. 
  130. **^** "The 10 best U.S. colleges for a major in psychology". _USA TODAY College_. Retrieved  September 2, 2015. 
  131. **^** "The 50 best computer-science and engineering schools in America". Retrieved  September 2, 2015. 
  132. **^** "Top 100 Global Universities" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on August 6, 2012. Retrieved July 4, 2011. 
  133. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities – 2014". ShanghaiRanking Consultancy.  
  134. **^** What Business Leaders Says. _The New York Times_ , October 20, 2011. Retrieved December 30, 2011.
  135. **^** Gauging the Value of Your M.B.A.. _The New York Times_ , October 19, 2011. Retrieved December 30, 2011.
  136. **^** "Global Employability University Ranking 2015 results". _Times Higher Education_. November 6, 2015. Retrieved  August 18, 2016. 
  137. **^** "National Merit Scholarship Corporation Annual Report" (PDF). National Merit Scholarship Corporation. 
  138. **^** "Churchill Scholars". The Winston Churchill Foundation of the United States. Retrieved  September 30, 2016. 
  139. **^** Kiplinger's Sortable Rankings of Private College Values. _Kiplinger._ Retrieved July 6, 2011.
  140. **^** "The-Billionaire-Universities". Yahoo! Finance. May 30, 2008. Archived from the original on June 29, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  141. **^** "In Pictures: Billionaire Universities". _Forbes_. Retrieved  July 6, 2011. 
  142. **^** Ranking America's Leading Universities on Their Success in Integrating African Americans Archived July 1, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.. _The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education_ , 2002. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  143. **^** "Global Companies Rank Universities". NYTimes.com. October 25, 2012. Retrieved  August 16, 2013. 
  144. **^** "Power Factories". _Forbes_.  
  145. **^** "The World's Most Innovative Universities". Thomson Reuters.  
  146. **^** "Obama Won't Rate Colleges, So We Did". NPR. September 15, 2015.  
  147. **^** "Best 50 Colleges for African Americans". _Time_. Retrieved  April 12, 2016. 
  148. **^** "Expensive Schools Worth Every Penny". _Forbes_. Retrieved  April 17, 2016. 
  149. **^** "The Top U.S. Colleges". _WSJ_. Retrieved  September 29, 2016. 
  150. **^** Best Medical Schools 2017: Research. Archived April 22, 2014, at the Wayback Machine. _U.S. News & World Report._
  151. **^** "Best Medical Schools 2018: Primary Care". _U.S. News & World Report_. Archived from the original on April 21, 2010. Retrieved April 5, 2017. 
  152. **^** Best Law Schools 2017. _U.S. News & World Report._
  153. **^** Best Nursing Schools 2018. _U.S. News & World Report_.
  154. **^** Best Public Affairs Schools 2017. _U.S. News & World Report_.
  155. **^** America's Best Graduate Schools 2018. _U.S. News & World Report_.
  156. **^** The Complete 2014 Business Schools Ranking Archived November 24, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.. _Bloomberg Businessweek._
  157. **^** Best Engineering Schools 2017. _U.S. News & World Report_.
  158. **^** THE – Top institutions in Mathematics. _Times Higher Education_ , 2011. Retrieved June 16, 2011.
  159. **^** Duke University: Overall Rankings. _U.S. News & World Report_, 2011. Retrieved August 3, 2011.
  160. **^** "Duke faculty more productive than peers, according to study". The Herald-Sun. Archived from the original on October 19, 2012. Retrieved  November 27, 2012. 
  161. **^** Smith, Jacquelyn. "The 25 Law Schools Whose Grads Earn The Most". _Forbes_.  
  162. **^** Ranked N°3 – Master of Engineering Management (MEM) – Duke University. Best-masters.us. Retrieved on July 29, 2013.
  163. **^** Duke University – In Photos: The Grateful Grads Index: The Top 50 ROI Colleges. Forbes. Retrieved on July 29, 2013.
  164. **^** The ATL Top 50 Law School Rankings 2013 " Above the Law: A Legal Web Site – News, Commentary, and Opinions on Law Firms, Lawyers, Law Schools, Law Suits, Judges and Courts + Career Resources. Abovethelaw.com. Retrieved on July 29, 2013.
  165. **^** Best Business Schools In The World. _Business Insider_ (July 17, 2013). Retrieved on July 29, 2013.
  166. **^** "Best Global Universities Ranking – 2014". U.S. News & World Report. Archived from the original on November 27, 2015.  
  167. **^** "2014–2015 World Ranking (1–250)". University Ranking by Academic Performance. 2014. Retrieved  November 8, 2015. 
  168. **^** Love, Maggie. "Uni analyzes impact of new housing model on diversity", _The Chronicle_ , November 8, 2010. Retrieved July 5, 2011.
  169. **^** See Demographics of the United States for references.
  170. **^** RLHS: Mission. _Duke Residence Life and Housing Services._ Retrieved May 3, 2011. Archived October 11, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
  171. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Campus Life. _U.S. News & World Report._ Retrieved January 12, 2011. Archived April 12, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
  172. **^** Epworth. _Duke Residence Life and Housing Services._ Retrieved May 3, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  173. **^** Gilbert-Addoms. _Duke Residence Life and Housing Services._ Retrieved May 3, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  174. **^** RLHS: Communities. _Duke Residence Life and Housing Services._ Retrieved May 3, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  175. **^** About FOCUS. _Duke University._ Retrieved August 1, 2011. Archived August 2, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  176. **^** Kyle, Nicole. Admins detail housing reshuffling. _The Chronicle_ , March 18, 2011. Retrieved August 1, 2011.
  177. **^** Bishop, Eric. Record number of seniors to leave campus housing. _The Chronicle_ , July 19, 2005. Retrieved July 7, 2011.
  178. **^** Central Campus Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke Residence Life and Housing Services._ Retrieved July 7, 2011. "Archived copy". Archived from the original on March 19, 2012. Retrieved  May 3, 2011. 
  179. **^** Living Groups on Campus Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke Residence Life and Housing Services._ Retrieved July 7, 2011. "Archived copy". Archived from the original on March 19, 2012. Retrieved  July 8, 2011. 
  180. **^** National Pan-Hellenic Council. _Duke University._ Retrieved June 28, 2011. Archived September 1, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
  181. **^** Inter-Greek Council. _Duke University._ Retrieved June 28, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  182. **^** Current Living Groups. Archived February 26, 2014, at the Wayback Machine. Duke University Student Affairs. Retrieved February 23, 2014.
  183. **^** Fraternity Housing Sections, _Duke Office of Fraternity & Sorority Life._ Retrieved July 4, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  184. **^** Moulton, Jessica. Keg prices reduced by $10; bartenders remain expensive. _The Chronicle._ Retrieved January 12, 2011. [ _dead link_ ]
  185. **^** DeLuca, Jerry and Vrettos, Christopher. Honestly, the administration wants no kegs. _The Chronicle._ Retrieved January 12, 2011. Archived March 1, 2013, at Archive.is
  186. **^** Mueller, Jared. Buchanan Blues. _The Chronicle_ , April 29, 2006. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  187. **^** Eaglin, Adam. Duke to sell 5 off-East houses. _The Chronicle_ , June 1, 2006. Retrieved April 17, 2011.
  188. **^** Englander, Dan (February 28, 2006). "University buys off-East houses". _The Chronicle_. Retrieved  April 9, 2017. 
  189. **^** Cameron's Craziest. _ESPN_ , 2002. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  190. **^** Nathan, Vignesh. K-Ville Bills: One Student's Plan to Better Tenting. _Towerview Magazine_ , February 9, 2011.
  191. **^** McCartney, Ryan. DSG presents revised draft of tenting policy. _The Chronicle_ , October 26, 2005. Retrieved August 1, 2011.
  192. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Brill, Bill. _Duke basketball: 100 seasons : a legacy of achievement_ , p. 97. Sports Publishing L.L.C, 2004. Retrieved August 25, 2011.
  193. **^** Kville Archived September 16, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke Student Government._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  194. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Duke Student Organizations. _Duke Student Affairs._ Retrieved July 4, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  195. **^** Non-profit organization. Archived July 19, 2009, at the Wayback Machine., _Duke University Office of Student Activities and Facilities_ , July 1, 2009. Retrieved July 1, 2011.
  196. **^** Duke Student Government. _Duke Student Government._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  197. **^** About DUU. Archived August 15, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. Duke University Union. Retrieved August 22, 2011.
  198. **^** Hoof 'n' Horn. Duke Hoof 'n' Horn. Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  199. **^** Duke A Cappella Council. Duke University A Cappella Council. Retrieved April 17, 2017.
  200. **^** "National Championship Final Round Results". American Mock Trial Association. Retrieved  September 30, 2016. 
  201. **^** DukeGroups directory Archived July 1, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke University._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  202. **^** Duke University Community Engagement. _Duke Office of Durham & Regional Affairs._ Retrieved August 1, 2011.
  203. **^** Research Service Learning – Scholarship with a Civic Mission Archived August 23, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _Duke University._ Retrieved August 1, 2011.
  204. **^** Civic Engagement Directory. _Duke University Division of Student Affairs._ Retrieved July 6, 2011. Archived August 10, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.
  205. **^** Kenan Institute for Ethics – Project Change Archived June 27, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. _Kenan Institute for Ethics._ Retrieved June 27, 2012.
  206. **^** Dean, Ashley. Duke Students Mix Service With Academics. _The New York Times_ , November 11, 2005. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  207. **^** The Chronicle: About Us. _The Chronicle._ Retrieved June 28, 2011. Archived February 18, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  208. **^** The Chronicle heralded at conference. _The Chronicle_ , October 31, 2005. Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  209. **^** Cable 13. _Cable 13._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  210. **^** WXDU Durham, 88.7 fm: Station. _WXDU._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  211. **^** Raleigh-Durham Radio Waves. _RDU Radio Waves._ Retrieved June 21, 2011.
  212. **^** _The Rival Duke_
  213. **^** "Alumni Benefits". Duke Alumni Association. Retrieved  November 13, 2017. 
  214. **^** "History and Mission". _Duke magazine_. Duke Alumni Association. Retrieved  November 13, 2017. 
  215. **^** "Archives". _Duke magazine_. Duke Alumni Association. Retrieved  November 13, 2017. 
  216. **^** "Duke University Blue Devils | Official Athletics Site – GoDuke.com". _www.goduke.com_. Retrieved  2017-09-08. 
  217. **^** "Duke National Championships". Duke University. Retrieved  May 27, 2014. 
  218. **^** Foundation, National Football. "Duke AD Kevin White Named 2014 Recipient of NFF John L. Toner Award > National Football Foundation > NewsDetail". _www.footballfoundation.org_. Retrieved  2017-09-08. 
  219. **^** Academic Progress Report
  220. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ http://basketball.realgm.com/ncaa/conferences/Atlantic-Coast-Conference/1/Duke/31/nba-players
  221. **^** "ACC Champions" (PDF). _2007 Atlantic Coast Conference Media Guide_. Atlantic Coast Conference: 93. 2007. Retrieved  January 13, 2011. 
  222. **^** Colleges – Pro Football Hall of Fame. _Pro Football Hall of Fame_ , 2011. Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  223. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Young, Jim. The 1938 Iron Dukes: A Lasting Legacy. _Duke Magazine_ , July/August 2003. Retrieved July 11, 2011. Archived March 19, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  224. **^** Iron Dukes: Providing Scholarship Support for the Duke Student-Athlete. _Iron Dukes._ Retrieved June 21, 2011.
  225. **^** King, William E. The 1942 Durham Rose Bowl. _Duke University Archives._ Retrieved January 12, 2011.
  226. **^** Duke Blue Devils. _Theacc.com._ Retrieved June 12, 2011.
  227. **^** Wiseman, Steve. Dilweg: Duke kept looking for next Spurrier Archived March 21, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.. _The Herald-Sun_ , July 2011. Retrieved August 1, 2011.
  228. **^** "MacIntyre Named National Assistant Coach of the Year". GoDuke.com. November 18, 2009. Retrieved  March 26, 2011. 
  229. **^** Notre Dame Receives 2007 American Football Coaches Association's Academic Achievement Award. Notre Dame Athletics, 2007. Retrieved August 10, 2011.
  230. **^** [1]
  231. **^** [2]
  232. **^** [3]
  233. **^** "Norm Ogilvie Bio". _goduke.com_. Retrieved  April 18, 2016. 
  234. **^** "Morris Williams Track & Field Stadium Opens Monday". _goduke.com_. January 16, 2015.  
  235. **^** Duke University Alumni. _Duke University._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  236. **^** Duke Regional Networks. _Duke Alumni Association._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  237. **^** Alumni Giving Rates. _U.S. News & World Report._ Retrieved July 29, 2011. Archived February 13, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.
  238. **^** Top US Colleges – Graduate Salary Statistics. _PayScale._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  239. **^** Richard M. Nixon Archived March 12, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _The White House._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  240. **^** Liddy Dole – U.S. Congress. _The Washington Post_ , 2011. Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  241. **^** Ricardo Lagos Biography. _A &E Biography._ Retrieved July 25, 2011. Archived August 11, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
  242. **^** Women's Studies: The Portraits Project Archived March 4, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _Women's Studies._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  243. **^** Ron Paul Biography. _A &E Biography._ Retrieved July 25, 2011. Archived September 16, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
  244. **^** Eric K. Shinseki – Office of Public and Intergovernmental Affairs Archived September 15, 2014, at the Wayback Machine., _U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs_ , 2010. Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  245. **^** OMB Leadership Bios – Jeffrey Zients Archived July 23, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _The White House._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  246. **^** Hans G. Dehmelt – Autobiography. _The Nobel Foundation._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  247. **^** Robert C. Richardson – Autobiography. _The Nobel Foundation._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  248. **^** Charles Townes – Biography. _The Nobel Foundation._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  249. **^** Faculty Biography: Frederick P. Brooks Jr.. _University of North Carolina._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  250. **^** "Edmund Clarke". Amturing.acm.org. Retrieved  December 23, 2015. 
  251. **^** Fellow Awards: John Cocke Archived May 9, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.. _Computer History Museum._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  252. **^** Online NewsHour: Ian Barbour Biography. _PBS NewsHour_ , May 28, 1999. Retrieved July 29, 2011. Archived December 28, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.
  253. **^** Paul Farmer, MD, PhD. _Harvard University._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  254. **^** Theodore Joseph Ziolkowski. _John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation._ Retrieved July 29, 2011. Archived March 31, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  255. **^** Charlie Rose: TV & Radio Anchors. _Bloomberg._ Retrieved July 26, 2011.
  256. **^** John Feinstein: NPR. _NPR._ Retrieved July 26, 2011. Archived September 5, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
  257. **^** John Harwood: CNBC Chief Washington Correspondent. _CNBC TV Profiles._ Retrieved July 26, 2011.
  258. **^** Sean McManus: Executive Profile and Biography. _Bloomberg._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  259. **^** Dan Abrams. _The Huffington Post._ Retrieved July 26, 2011.
  260. **^** 'Good Morning America' Legal Analyst Dan Abrams' Biography. _ABC News._ Retrieved July 26, 2011.
  261. **^** Judy Woodruff _PBS News Hour._ Retrieved July 26, 2011. Archived January 30, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  262. **^** Jay Bilas. Archived August 2, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. _ESPN MediaZone._ Retrieved July 26, 2011
  263. **^** CBS Sports TV Team: Jay Bilas. _CBSSports.com._ Retrieved July 26, 2011. Archived October 23, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  264. **^** CBS Sports TV Team: Mike Gminski. _CBSSports.com._ Retrieved July 26, 2011. Archived July 18, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  265. **^** CBS Sports TV Team: Jim Spanarkel. _CBSSports.com._ Retrieved July 26, 2011. Archived July 18, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  266. **^** Jay Williams. Archived June 16, 2012, at the Wayback Machine. _ESPN MediaZone._ Retrieved July 26, 2011.
  267. **^** Former FORTUNE magazine managing editor to deliver Birmingham-Southern Commencement address. Archived September 27, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. _Birmingham–Southern College Office of Communications._ Retrieved July 26, 2011
  268. **^** In Memoriam: Clay Felker. Archived October 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. _UC Berkeley._ Retrieved July 26, 2011.
  269. **^** William Styron Biography. _Encyclopædia Britannica._ Retrieved July 29, 2011. Archived November 18, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  270. **^** Short Bio: Anne Tyler. _St. Charles Library_ , 2004. Retrieved July 29, 2011. Archived January 27, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  271. **^** Annabeth Gish: Biography. _TVGuide.com._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  272. **^** Biography for Ken Jeong on IMDb
  273. **^** Fernando, Dillon. "Interview: Retta Sirleaf". _The Chronicle_. Retrieved  October 14, 2015. 
  274. **^** Biography for Randall Wallace on IMDb
  275. **^** Mithcell, Gail. Duke Grad Mike Posner Heats Up The Charts. _Billboard.com_ , June 25, 2010. Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  276. **^** School of Letters lecture: David Hudgins. _Sewanee Today._ Retrieved July 29, 2011. Archived July 22, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  277. **^** Wolf, Alan. Apple's new CEO has ties to Duke University. _The Charlotte Observer_ , August 25, 2011. Retrieved August 25, 2011. Archived October 17, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
  278. **^** John Allison: Executive Profile and Biography. _Bloomberg Businessweek._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  279. **^** Peter Nicholas, The World's Richest People. _Forbes._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  280. **^** Aubrey McClendon: Executive Profile and Biography. _Bloomberg._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  281. **^** Rick Wagoner. _The Wall Street Journal._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  282. **^** Steven Black: Executive Profile and Biography. _Bloomberg._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  283. **^** William Hawkins: Executive Profile and Biography. _Bloomberg._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  284. **^** John J. Mack Biography. _Encyclopedia of World Biography._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  285. **^** David R. Goode. _Forbes._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  286. **^** Gary L. Wilson. _Forbes._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  287. **^** Karl M. von der Heyden. _Forbes._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  288. **^** David S. Taylor "Bloomberg." Retrieved August 16, 2015.
  289. **^** Pfizer Gallery of Leaders. Archived January 4, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. Pfizer. Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  290. **^** Gerald Hassell: Executive Profile and Compensation. _Bloomberg._ Retrieved October 17, 2011.
  291. **^** Robert Steel. _The Wall Street Journal._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  292. **^** FCC Chairman Kevin J. Martin – Biography. _Federal Communications Commission._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  293. **^** Rex D. Adams Profile – Forbes. _Forbes._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  294. **^** Melinda Gates: Executive Profile and Biography. _Bloomberg._ Retrieved July 25, 2011.
  295. **^** Foundation Fact Sheet. _Bill& Melinda Gates Foundation._ Retrieved July 4, 2011.
  296. **^** The Nation's 10 Wealthiest Foundations. _The Chronicle of Philanthropy_ , March 4, 2004. Retrieved January 12, 2011. Archived October 16, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  297. **^** Angelos' son moves up to No. 3. _The Baltimore Sun_ , March 1, 1999. Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  298. **^** Aubrey McClendon Archived July 29, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.. _Forbes._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  299. **^** John Canning: Executive Profile and Biography. _Businessweek._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  300. **^** Mason, Stuart. Former Cavs general manager Danny Ferry to San Antonio. _Mega Sports News_ , August 28, 2010. Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  301. **^** Stephen Pagliuca – Managing Partner & Alternate Governor. _NBA.com._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  302. **^** Owners and Front Office – Tampa Bay Lightning. _NHL.com_ and _Lightning Hockey LP._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  303. **^** NBA & ABA Players who Attended Duke University. _Sports Reference LLC._ Retrieved July 29, 2011.
  304. **^** [4]
  305. **^** "How Abby Johnston Manages Olympic Training – And Med School". ESPN. Retrieved  August 15, 2016. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Duke University**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Duke Athletics website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Duke University  
  
---  
Academics |

Schools and Institutes

    Divinity School
    Duke Kunshan University
    Fuqua School of Business
    Graduate School
    Kenan Institute for Ethics
    Nicholas School of the Environment
    Pratt School of Engineering
    Sanford School of Public Policy
    School of Law
    School of Medicine
    School of Nursing
    Trinity College of Arts and Sciences

Programs

    FOCUS
    Robertson Scholars
    TIP

|  
  
Athletics |

  * ACC
  * Athletic Director
  * Baseball
  * Basketball: 
    * Men's
    * Women's
  * _Blue and White_
  * Cameron Crazies
  * Cameron Indoor Stadium
  * Carlyle Cup
  * Carolina–Duke rivalry
  * _Dear Old Duke_
  * Duke blue
  * _Fight! Blue Devils, Fight!_
  * Football
  * History of the Blue Devil
  * Jack Coombs Field
  * Koskinen Stadium
  * Krzyzewskiville
  * Lacrosse
  * Men's Soccer
  * Tobacco Road
  * Victory Bell
  * Wallace Wade Stadium

  
  
Campus |

  * Duke Chapel
  * Duke Forest
  * Durham
  * Fitzpatrick Center
  * Franklin Center
  * Images
  * Lee Monument
  * Lemur Center
  * Levine Science Research Center
  * Marine Lab
  * Medical Center
  * Nasher Museum of Art
  * Sarah P. Duke Gardens
  * Triangle Universities Nuclear Laboratory

  
  
Student life |

  * American Dance Festival
  * Cable 13
  * Cameron Crazies
  * _The Chronicle_
  * Krzyzewskiville
  * WXDU
  * _The Chanticleer_

  
  
People |

  * Alumni
  * Faculty
  * James B. Duke
  * Julian S. Carr
  * Presidents
  * Washington Duke

  
  
History |

  * History of Duke University
  * Duke lacrosse case
    * Group of 88
  * 2010 faux sex thesis controversy

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Private colleges and universities in North Carolina  
  
---  
  
  * Barber-Scotia
  * Barton
  * Belmont Abbey
  * Bennett
  * Brevard
  * Campbell
  * Catawba
  * Charlotte Christian
  * Chowan
  * Davidson
  * Duke
  * Elon
  * Gardner–Webb
  * Greensboro
  * Guilford
  * High Point
  * Johnson C. Smith
  * John Wesley
  * Lees–McRae
  * Lenoir–Rhyne
  * Livingstone
  * Louisburg
  * Mars Hill
  * Meredith
  * Methodist
  * Mid-Atlantic Christian
  * Montreat
  * Mount Olive
  * North Carolina Wesleyan
  * Pfeiffer
  * Piedmont International
  * Queens
  * St. Andrews
  * St. Augustine's
  * Salem
  * Shaw
  * Southeastern Baptist
  * Southeastern Free Will Baptist
  * Warren Wilson
  * Wake Forest
  * William Peace
  * Wingate

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Atlantic Coast Conference  
  
---  
Atlantic Division |

  * Boston College Eagles
  * Clemson Tigers
  * Florida State Seminoles
  * Louisville Cardinals
  * North Carolina State Wolfpack
  * Notre Dame Fighting Irish (non-football member)
  * Syracuse Orange
  * Wake Forest Demon Deacons

|  
  
Coastal Division |

  * Duke Blue Devils
  * Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets
  * Miami Hurricanes
  * North Carolina Tar Heels
  * Pittsburgh Panthers
  * Virginia Cavaliers
  * Virginia Tech Hokies

  
  
Championships & awards |

  * Conference champions
  * National championships
  * Athlete of the Year

  
  
Broadcast partners |

  * Raycom Sports (ACC Network; list of affiliates)
  * ESPN (ACC Network Extra)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Southeastern Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Standard members |

  * Alabama
  * UAB
  * UAHuntsville
  * Arkansas
  * Auburn
  * Baylor
  * Catholic
  * UCF
  * Christopher Newport
  * Clemson
  * Delaware
  * Duke
  * East Carolina
  * Florida
  * Florida Atlantic
  * Florida Tech
  * FIU
  * Florida State
  * George Mason
  * George Washington
  * Georgetown
  * Georgia
  * Georgia Tech
  * Georgia State
  * Hampton
  * Houston
  * James Madison
  * Kentucky
  * UL Lafayette
  * LSU
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Maryland
  * UMBC
  * MIT
  * Memphis
  * Miami
  * Ole Miss
  * Mississippi State
  * New Orleans
  * Norfolk State
  * North Carolina A&T
  * North Carolina
  * NC State
  * Oklahoma
  * Old Dominion
  * Regina
  * Rice
  * Richmond
  * South Carolina
  * South Florida
  * Southern Miss
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Virginia
  * VCU
  * Virginia Tech
  * Virginia State
  * West Virginia
  * William & Mary

  
  
Affiliate members |

  * Idaho State
  * Ohio

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

International Association of Methodist-related Schools, Colleges, and
Universities  
  
---  
  
  * Adrian
  * Alaska Pacific
  * Albion
  * Albright
  * Allegheny
  * American
  * Andrew
  * Baker
  * Baldwin Wallace
  * Bennett
  * Bethune–Cookman
  * Birmingham-Southern
  * Boston University
  * Brevard
  * Centenary (Louisiana)
  * Centenary University
  * Central Methodist
  * Claflin
  * Clark Atlanta
  * Columbia College (South Carolina)
  * Cornell College
  * Dakota Wesleyan
  * Denver
  * DePauw
  * Dickinson College
  * Dillard
  * Drew
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Emory & Henry
  * Evansville
  * Ferrum
  * Florida Southern
  * Green Mountain
  * Greensboro
  * Hamline
  * Hendrix
  * High Point
  * Hiwassee
  * Huntingdon
  * Huston-Tillotson
  * Illinois Wesleyan
  * Indianapolis
  * Iowa Wesleyan
  * Kansas Wesleyan
  * Kendall
  * Kentucky Wesleyan
  * LaGrange
  * Lambuth
  * Lebanon Valley
  * Lindsey Wilson
  * Lon Morris
  * Louisburg
  * Lycoming
  * MacMurray
  * Martin Methodist
  * McKendree
  * McMurry
  * Meharry Medical
  * Methodist
  * Millsaps
  * Morningside
  * Mount Union
  * Nebraska Methodist
  * Nebraska Wesleyan
  * North Carolina Wesleyan
  * North Central
  * Northwestern University
  * Ohio Northern
  * Ohio Wesleyan
  * Oklahoma City
  * Otterbein
  * Oxford of Emory
  * Pacific
  * Paine
  * Pfeiffer
  * Puget Sound
  * Philander Smith
  * Randolph
  * Randolph-Macon
  * Reinhardt
  * Rocky Mountain
  * Rust
  * Shenandoah
  * Simpson College
  * Southern Methodist
  * Southwestern College (Kansas)
  * Southwestern University
  * Spartanburg Methodist
  * Syracuse
  * Tennessee Wesleyan
  * Texas Wesleyan
  * Union (Kentucky)
  * Virginia Wesleyan
  * Wesley College (Delaware)
  * Wesleyan College
  * West Virginia Wesleyan
  * Wiley
  * Willamette
  * Wofford
  * Young Harris

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

568 Group  
  
---  
  
  * Amherst College
  * Boston College
  * Claremont McKenna College
  * College of the Holy Cross
  * Columbia University
  * Cornell University
  * Dartmouth College
  * Davidson College
  * Duke University
  * Emory University
  * Georgetown University
  * Grinnell College
  * Haverford College
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * Middlebury College
  * Northwestern University
  * Pomona College
  * St. John's College
  * Swarthmore College
  * University of Notre Dame
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * Vanderbilt University
  * Wellesley College
  * Williams College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

CDIO Initiative  
  
---  
Africa |

| South Africa |

  * University of Pretoria

  
  
---|---  
Asia-Pacific |

| Australia |

  * Chisholm Institute
  * Queensland University of Technology
  * University of Sydney

  
  
---|---  
China |

  * Beijing Jiaotong University
  * Chengdu University of Information Technology
  * Shantou University
  * Tsinghua University

  
  
_Elsewhere_ |

  * Taylor's University  (Malaysia)
  * University of Auckland (New Zealand)
  * Singapore Polytechnic
  * Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City

  
  
Europe |

| Finland |

  * Lahti University of Applied Sciences
  * Helsinki Metropolia University of Applied Sciences
  * Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences
  * Turku University of Applied Sciences

  
  
---|---  
Sweden |

  * Chalmers University of Technology
  * Jönköping School of Engineering
  * Linköping University
  * Royal Institute of Technology
  * Umeå Institute of Technology

  
  
UK |

  * Aston University
  * Queen's University Belfast
  * University of Bristol
  * Lancaster University
  * University of Liverpool
  * University of Leeds
  * University of Strathclyde

  
  
_Elsewhere_ |

  * Hogeschool Gent  (Belgium)
  * Engineering College of Aarhus (Denmark)
  * Technical University of Denmark
  * Telecom Bretagne (France)
  * Hochschule Wismar (Germany)
  * Politecnico di Milano (Italy)
  * Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto (Portugal)
  * Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (Spain)

  
  
North America |

| Canada |

  * École Polytechnique de Montréal
  * Queen's University
  * University of Calgary
  * University of Manitoba

  
  
---|---  
United States |

  * Arizona State University
  * California State University
  * University of Colorado
  * Duke University
  * Embry–Riddle Aeronautical University
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * University of Michigan
  * Pennsylvania State University
  * United States Naval Academy

  
  
Central and  
South America

|

| Chile |

  * University of Chile
  * Catholic University of the Most Holy Conception
  * University of Santiago, Chile

  
  
---|---  
Colombia |

  * Pontifical Xavierian University
  * ICESI University

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Duke_University&oldid=816695491"

Categories:

  * Duke University
  * Duke family
  * Educational institutions established in 1838
  * Universities and colleges accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
  * Universities and colleges in Durham, North Carolina
  * Universities and colleges in North Carolina
  * Universities and colleges in the Research Triangle
  * 1838 establishments in North Carolina
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from April 2017
  * Webarchive template archiveis links
  * Use mdy dates from November 2016
  * Featured articles
  * Articles containing Latin-language text
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Articles needing additional references from May 2017
  * All articles needing additional references

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Lumbaart
  * Magyar
  * മലയാളം
  * مصرى
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Simple English
  * Slovenščina
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * Zazaki
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 23 December 2017, at 02:02.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 7 ranking. Duke is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

