

# Emory University

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Emory University  
---  
Motto | _Cor prudentis possidebit scientiam_ (Latin)  
  
Motto in English

| The wise heart seeks knowledge  
Type | Private  
Established | 1836[1]  
Affiliation | United Methodist Church[2][3]  
Endowment | $6.402 billion (2016)[4]  
President | Claire E. Sterk[5]  
Students | 15,252 (Fall 2017)[6]  
Undergraduates | 7,916 (Fall 2017)[6]  
Postgraduates | 7,336 (Fall 2017)[6]  
Location | Druid Hills, Georgia, U.S.  
33°47′28″N 84°19′24″W﻿ / ﻿33.79111°N 84.32333°W﻿ / 33.79111;
-84.32333Coordinates: 33°47′28″N 84°19′24″W﻿ / ﻿33.79111°N 84.32333°W﻿ /
33.79111; -84.32333  
Campus | Suburban  
631 acres (2.6 km²)  
Newspaper | _The Emory Wheel_[7]  
Colors |  Blue     [8]  
Athletics | NCAA Division III – UAA[9]  
Nickname | Eagles  
Affiliations |

  * AAU[10]
  * SACS[11]
  * ACE[12]
  * NAICU[13]
  * IAMSCU[14]
  * ORAU[15]

  
  
Website | www.emory.edu  
  
**Emory University** is a private research university in metropolitan Atlanta,
located in the Druid Hills section of DeKalb County, Georgia, United
States.[16] The area has been annexed by the city of Atlanta with an effective
date of January 1, 2018 [17]. The university was founded as Emory College in
1836 in Oxford, Georgia by the Methodist Episcopal Church and was named in
honor of Methodist bishop John Emory.[18] In 1915, the college relocated to
Druid Hills, closer to Atlanta, and was rechartered as Emory University. The
university is the second-oldest private institution of higher education in
Georgia and among the fifty oldest private universities in the United
States.[19] Emory is frequently cited as one of the world's leading research
universities and one of the top institutions in the United
States.[20][21][22][23][24][25][26]

Emory University has nine academic divisions: Emory College of Arts and
Sciences, Oxford College, Goizueta Business School, Laney Graduate School,
School of Law, School of Medicine, Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing,
Rollins School of Public Health, and the Candler School of Theology.[27] Emory
University, the Georgia Institute of Technology, and Peking University in
Beijing, China jointly administer the Wallace H. Coulter Department of
Biomedical Engineering.[28][29] The university operates the Confucius
Institute in Atlanta in partnership with Nanjing University.[30][31] Emory has
a growing faculty research partnership with the Korea Advanced Institute of
Science and Technology (KAIST).[32][33][34] Emory University students come
from all 50 states, 6 territories of the United States, and over 100 foreign
countries.[35]

Emory Healthcare is the largest healthcare system in the state of Georgia[36]
and comprises seven major hospitals, including the internationally renowned
Emory University Hospital and Emory University Hospital Midtown.[37] The
university operates the Winship Cancer Institute, Yerkes National Primate
Research Center, and many disease and vaccine research centers.[38][39][40]
Emory University is the leading coordinator of both the NIAID's Malaria Host-
Pathogen Interaction Center (MaHPIC)[41] and the U.S. Health Department's
National Ebola Training and Education Center.[42] The university is one of
four institutions involved in the NIAID's Tuberculosis Research Units
Program.[43] The International Association of National Public Health
Institutes is headquartered at the university[44] and the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and the American Cancer Society are national affiliate
institutions located adjacent to the campus.[45] The university is partnered
with the Carter Center.[46]

Emory University is 16th among the list of colleges and universities in the
United States by endowment,[47] 21st among universities in the world by
endowment,[48] 21st among 'National Universities' ranking and 71st among
'Global Universities' ranking according to _U.S. News& World Report's_ 2018
rankings.[49] Emory University has a Carnegie Classification of Institutions
of Higher Education status of R1: "highest research activity" and is cited for
high scientific performance and citation impact in the CWTS Leiden
Ranking.[50] The National Science Foundation ranked the university 36th among
academic institutions in the United States for research and development (R&D)
expenditures.[51] Emory University research is funded primarily by federal
government agencies, namely the National Institutes of Health (NIH).[52] In
1995 Emory University was elected to the Association of American Universities,
an association of the 62 leading research universities in the United States &
Canada.[10]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Nineteenth century
    * 1.2 Twentieth century
    * 1.3 First and Second World Wars
    * 1.4 Women's and Civil Rights Movement
    * 1.5 Expansion and modernization
    * 1.6 Twenty-first century
  * 2 Academics
    * 2.1 Undergraduate schools
    * 2.2 Graduate and professional schools
    * 2.3 Library system
    * 2.4 Reputation and rankings
    * 2.5 Research
  * 3 Campus
  * 4 Student life
    * 4.1 Student body
    * 4.2 Arts
    * 4.3 Athletics
    * 4.4 Barkley Forum
    * 4.5 Community service
    * 4.6 Newspaper
    * 4.7 Programs abroad
    * 4.8 Residential life
    * 4.9 Student organizations
  * 5 Notable alumni and faculty
  * 6 References
  * 7 Further reading
  * 8 External links

## History[edit]

Main article: History of Emory University

Glenn Memorial United Methodist Church, Emory University

Asa Griggs Candler, founder of The Coca-Cola Company, provided a land grant
for Emory College to relocate to metropolitan Atlanta and be rechartered as
Emory University.[53] Based on large donations from the Candler, Woodruff,
Goizueta, and Rollins families, Emory University is colloquially referred to
as "Coca-Cola University."[54]

### Nineteenth century[edit]

Emory College was founded in 1836 in Oxford, Georgia by the Methodist
Episcopal Church.[55] The college was named in honor of the departed Methodist
bishop John Emory.[55] Ignatius Alphonso Few was the college's first
president. In 1854, the Atlanta Medical College, a forerunner of Emory
University School of Medicine, was founded. On April 12, 1861, the American
Civil War began. Emory College was closed in November 1861 and all of its
students enlisted on the Confederate side.[55] In late 1863 the war came to
Georgia and the college was used as hospital and later a headquarters for the
Union Army. The university produced many officers who served in the war,
including General George Thomas Anderson (1846C) who fought in nearly every
major battle in the eastern theater.[56] Thirty five Emory students lost their
lives and much of the campus was destroyed during the war.[57]

Emory College, as with the entire Southeastern United States, struggled to
overcome financial devastation during the Reconstruction Era. In 1880, Atticus
Greene Haygood, Emory College President, delivered a speech expressing
gratitude for the end of slavery in the United States, which captured the
attention of George I. Seney, a New York banker. Seney gave Emory College
$5,000 to repay its debts, $50,000 for construction, and $75,000 to establish
a new endowment. In the 1880s, the technology department was launched by Isaac
Stiles Hopkins, a polymath professor at Emory College. Hopkins became the
first president of the Georgia Institute of Technology in 1888. Emory
University's first international student, Yun Chi-ho, graduated in 1893.[58]
Yun became an important political activist in Korea and is the author of
"Aegukga", the national anthem of the Republic of Korea.[59][60]

### Twentieth century[edit]

On August 16, 1906, the Wesley Memorial Hospital and Training School for
Nurses, later renamed the Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing, was
established. In 1914, the Candler School of Theology was established. In 1915,
Emory College relocated to Druid Hills and was rechartered as Emory University
after accepting a land grant from Asa Griggs Candler, founder of The Coca-Cola
Company. The Emory University School of Law was established in 1916. From the
1920s through the 1970s, Emory University established its reputation as a
regional institution that offered a solid education in medicine, law,
theology, business, and the liberal arts.

### First and Second World Wars[edit]

On April 6, 1917, the United States entered the First World War. Emory
University organized a medical unit, composed of medical school faculty and
medical alumni, that would be known as Emory Unit, Base Hospital 43. The unit
served in Loir-et-Cher, France from July 1918 to January 1919. The Emory Unit,
Base Hospital 43 was remobilized during the Second World War and served in the
North African Campaign and Europe. To recognize Emory’s participation in the
war effort, a ship was christened M.S. Emory Victory and served through World
War II and in the Korean War.

In the 1940s, Emory University students, alumni, and faculty served in the
Asia-Pacific War and European theater of World War II. Lieutenant Commander
James L. Starnes, a graduate of Emory Law, was the navigator of the battleship
USS  _Missouri_ and served as officer of the deck during the signing of the
Japanese Instrument of Surrender.[61] Bobby Jones (golfer), served during the
Battle of Normandy.[62] Dr. Alfred A. Weinstein, a professor of surgery at
Emory University School of Medicine, was a prisoner of war of the Empire of
Japan between 1942 and 1945. His memoir "Barbed Wire Surgeon" is considered
one of the finest accounts concerning allied prisoners under Japanese
captivity and highlights the abuses of the war criminal Mutsuhiro
Watanabe.[63] Kiyoshi Tanimoto, who graduated from the Candler School of
Theology in 1940 and is portrayed in John Hersey's Hiroshima (book), was able
to organize the Hiroshima Maidens reconstructive surgery program based on the
associations he made while studying in the United States.[64] Tatsumasa
Shirakawa, a Japanese student at the Candler School of Theology, was placed
under arrest temporarily until Dean Henry Burton Trimble negotiated his
release. Emory helped the nation prepare for war by participating in the V-12
Navy College Training Program and Army Specialized Training Program, programs
designed to supplement the force of commissioned officers in the United States
Navy and United States Army. The Candler School of Theology trained men for
military chaplaincy. During the war, university enrollment boasted two
military students for every one civilian. Emory University alumni would go on
to serve in the Korean War, Second Indochina War (Vietnam War), Persian Gulf
War, Yugoslav Wars, and the Global War on Terrorism.

###  Women's and Civil Rights Movement[edit]

The Women's Movement and Civil Rights Movement during the 1950s and 1960s in
the United States profoundly shaped the future of Emory University. Formerly
an all-male school, Emory officially became a coeducational institution in
1953. Although it had previously admitted women under limited circumstances,
the university had never before had a policy through which they could enroll
in large numbers and as resident students. In 1959, sororities first appeared
on campus. In 1962, in the midst of the Civil Rights Movement, Emory embraced
the initiative to end racial restrictions when it asked the courts to declare
portions of the Georgia statutes unconstitutional. Previously, Georgia law
denied tax-exempt status to private universities with racially integrated
student bodies. The Supreme Court of Georgia ruled in Emory's favor and Emory
officially became racially integrated. Marvin S. Arrington, Sr. was Emory
University's first, full-time African American student and graduated from
Emory University School of Law in 1967.[65]

On March 30, 1983, Kim Dae-jung, while in political exile in the US, gave a
speech on human rights and democracy at Emory University and accepted an
honorary Doctor of Laws degree by the institution. Kim would go on to serve as
the 8th President of South Korea.[66][67]

Emory's diversity and academic reputation flourished under the leadership of
the university's fifth president, James T. Laney. In addition to leading
universities in the Southeastern United States in the promotion of racial
equality, Laney and many of the school's faculty and administrators were
outspoken advocates of global human rights and thus were openly opposed to the
military dictatorship in South Korea (1961-1987). On March 30, 1983, Laney's
friend Kim Dae-jung, while in political exile in the United States, presented
a speech on human rights and democracy at Emory University and accepted an
honorary Doctor of Laws degree.[66] Kim would go on to play a major role in
ending authoritarianism in South Korea, served as the 8th President of South
Korea from 1998 to 2003, and was awarded the Nobel Peace Prize in 2000 for his
successful implementation of the Sunshine Policy. Laney would later serve as
United States Ambassador to South Korea and the Emory graduate school, founded
in 1919, was named in his honor in 2009.[65]

In 2005, the university presented the President Medal, an rare award conferred
only on individuals whose impact on the world has enhanced the dominion of
peace or has enlarged the range of cultural achievement, to Civil Rights
Movement activist Rosa Parks. The award is one of the highest honors presented
by Emory.[68]

In 2014, at Emory’s 169th Commencement, John Lewis, the only living "Big Six"
leader of the Civil Rights Movement, delivered the keynote address and
received an honorary doctor of laws degree. In 2015, Emory University School
of Law received a $1.5 million donation to help establish a John Lewis Chair
in Civil Rights and Social Justice. The gift, given anonymously, funds a
professorship which will enable Emory Law to conduct a national search for a
scholar with an established academic profile of distinction and a demonstrated
desire to promote the rule of law through the study of civil rights. The law
school has committed to raise an additional $500,000 to fund the chair
fully.[69]

### Expansion and modernization[edit]

The course of Emory's history changed dramatically in November 1979 when
Robert Winship Woodruff and George Waldo Woodruff presented the institution
with a gift of $105 million in Coca-Cola stock. At the time this was the
largest single gift to any institution of higher education in American
history, and it made a profound impact on Emory's direction in the next two
decades, boosting the university to the top ranks of American research
universities.[55]

### Twenty-first century[edit]

As one of the fastest-growing research universities in the United States in
the 21st century, Emory University has established a national reputation on
the strength of the scholarly achievements of its faculty and students, its
highly ranked professional schools, a long-term commitment to the arts and
sciences, and the presence of more than seventy cutting-edge research centers
that are addressing major social problems.[65] Emory has extended its ties to
the community, creating close links with Atlanta's neighborhoods, clinics,
hospitals, nonprofit organizations, and boardrooms. To accommodate its growth,
Emory has undergone a physical transformation that has increased classroom and
research space. The latest additions to the campus include buildings for
cancer research, biomedical research, scientific computation, mathematics and
science, vaccine research, and the performing arts.[65]

## Academics[edit]

### Undergraduate schools[edit]

**Undergraduate/Graduate Schools**  
---  
**School** |  **Year founded**  
Emory College of Arts and Sciences |  1836  
Oxford College |  1836  
Emory University School of Medicine |  1854  
Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing |  1905  
Candler School of Theology |  1914  
Emory University School of Law |  1916  
Laney Graduate School |  1919  
Goizueta Business School |  1919  
Rollins School of Public Health |  1990  
  
Main Quadrangle on Emory University's Druid Hills Campus

Emory College of Arts and Sciences (1836)

The Emory College of Arts and Sciences offers the Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) and
the Bachelor of Science (B.S) undergraduate academic degrees. Academic
Departments include African American Studies, African Studies, American
Studies, Ancient Mediterranean Studies, Anthropology, Art History, Biology,
Chemistry, Classics, Comparative Literature, East Asian Studies, Economics,
English, Environmental Sciences, Film & Media Studies, French and Italian
Studies, German Studies, Global Health, Culture, and Society, History, Human
Health, Jewish Studies, Latin American and Caribbean Studies, Linguistics,
Mathematics and Computer Science, Middle Eastern and South Asian Studies,
Music, Neuroscience and Behavioral Biology, Philosophy, Physics, Political
Science, Psychology, Quantitative Theory and Methods, Religion, Russian and
East Asian Languages and Cultures, Sociology, Spanish and Portuguese, Theater
and Dance, and Women's, Gender and Sexuality Studies. The Confucius Institute,
a non-profit public institution affiliated with the Ministry of Education of
the People's Republic of China, operates in co-operation with the university
at the Emory College of Arts and Sciences. The Emory-Tibet Partnership was
established in 1998.

Emory University offers a five-year dual degree program in engineering, in
collaboration with the Georgia Institute of Technology.[70] Emory University
also offers a dual master's degree in social work with the University of
Georgia.[71]

Oxford College (1836)

Oxford College offers an Associate degree (A.A.) in liberal arts. Students
that successfully complete Oxford College advance to Emory College of Arts and
Sciences to complete their undergraduate education. Academic Departments
include Anthropology, Art, Biology, Chemistry, Economics, English, Geology,
History, Languages, Mathematics & Computer Science, Music, Political Science,
Philosophy, Psychology, Physics & Astronomy, Quantitative Theory and Methods,
Religion, Sociology, Theater, and Women's Studies.[72]

### Graduate and professional schools[edit]

Charles and Peggy Evans Anatomy Building, Emory University School of Medicine

Gambrell Hall, Emory University School of Law

Emory University School of Medicine (1854)

The Emory University School of Medicine offers the Doctor of Medicine (MD),
Doctor of Physical Therapy, Master of Medical Science in Anesthesiology,
Master of Medical Science in Human Genetics & Genetic Counseling, Master of
Medical Science in Physician Assistant, and Bachelor of Medical Science in
Medical Imaging. Academic Departments include Biochemistry, Biomedical
Engineering, Biomedical Informatics, Cell Biology, Human Genetics,
Microbiology/Immunology, Pharmacology, and Physiology. Clinical Science
Departments include Anesthesiology, Dermatology, Emergency Medicine, Family &
Preventive Medicine, Gynecology/Obstetrics, Hematology/Medical Oncology,
Neurology, Neurosurgery, Ophthalmology, Orthopaedics, Otolaryngology,
Pathology, Pediatrics, Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences, Radiation Oncology,
Radiology, Rehabilitation Medicine, Surgery, and Urology.[73]

Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing (1905)

The Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing offers the Bachelor of Science in
Nursing (BSN), Masters of Science in Nursing, and Doctor of Nursing Practice
(DNP).[74]

Candler School of Theology (1914)

The Candler School of Theology offers the Master of Divinity (MDiv), Master of
Religious Leadership (MRL), Master of Religion and Public Life (MRPL), Master
of Theological Studies (MTS), Master of Theology (ThM), Doctor of Theology in
Pastoral Counseling (ThD), and Doctor of Ministry (DMin), an online
degree.[75]

Emory University School of Law (1916)

The Emory University School of Law offers the Juris Doctor, Juris Master,
Master of Laws, and Doctor of Juridical Science.[76]

Laney Graduate School (1919)

The Laney Graduate School offers the Master of Arts degree in Bioethics,
Clinical Research, Computer Science and Informatics, Development Practice,
Educational Studies, Film Studies, Mathematics, and Music. The school offers
the Doctor of Philosophy in Anthropology, Art History, Behavioral Sciences and
Health Education, Biochemistry, Cell and Developmental Biology (GDBBS),
Biomedical Engineering, Biostatistics, Business, Cancer Biology (GDBBS),
Chemistry, Clinical Psychology, Cognition and Development (Psychology),
Comparative Literature, Computer Science and Informatics, Economics,
Educational Studies, English, Environmental Health Sciences, Epidemiology,
French, Genetics and Molecular Biology (GDBBS), Health Services Research and
Health Policy, History, Immunology and Molecular Pathogenesis (GDBBS), Islamic
Civilizations Studies, Mathematics, Microbiology and Molecular Genetics
(GDBBS), Molecular and Systems Pharmacology (GDBBS), Neuroscience (GDBBS),
Neuroscience and Animal Behavior (Psychology), Nursing, Nutrition and Health
Sciences (GDBBS), Philosophy, Physics, Political Science, Population Biology,
Ecology and Evolution (GDBBS), Religion, Sociology, Spanish, and Women's,
Gender, and Sexuality Studies.[77]

Goizueta Business School (1919)

The Goizueta Business School offers the Bachelor of Business Administration,
Master of Business Administration, Executive Master of Business
Administration, and a Doctor of Philosophy in Business Administration.[78]

Rollins School of Public Health (1990)

The Rollins School of Public Health offers the Master of Public Health (MPH)
and Master of Science in Public Health (MSPH) and Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
degrees. Academic Departments include Behavioral Sciences & Health Education,
Biostatistics & Bioinformatics, Environmental Health, Epidemiology, Global
Health, and Health Policy & Management.[79]

### Library system[edit]

Stack Tower, Robert W. Woodruff Library

Emory University is a member of the Association of Research Libraries.[80] The
Emory University library system includes over 3.9 million print and electronic
volumes and 83,000-plus electronic journals.[81][82] Emory University
libraries include the Robert W. Woodruff Library, Woodruff Health Sciences
Center Library, Hugh F. MacMillan and Yuddhishtir Modhwadia Law Library, James
S. Guy Chemistry Library, Pitts Theology Library, Goizueta Business Library,
Marian K. Heilbrun Music & Media Library, and the Stuart A. Rose Manuscript,
Archives, and Rare Book Library (The Rose Library).[81][83] The Rose Library
contains rare materials relating to literature, African American history and
culture, and Southern and Georgia history. [81][82] Notable pieces of the
collection include a rare first edition of _Robinson Crusoe_ by Daniel
Defoe,[84] as well as works by Flannery O'Connor, Alice Walker, Langston
Hughes, W.B. Yeats, and Seamus Heaney.[85]

Subject specialist librarians provided research assistance for every academic
department at the university.[86] The Annual Robert W. Woodruff Library
Undergraduate Research Award recognizes undergraduate students who make
extensive use of Woodruff Library’s collections and research resources in
their original scholarship and show evidence of critical analysis in their
research skills.[87]

In 2012, the Princeton Review ranked the Robert W. Woodruff Library among the
top 10 "Best College Libraries" in the United States.[88] In 2013, the Pitts
Theology Library of the Candler School of Theology was named as one of "Most
Beautiful College Libraries in the World."[89]

### Reputation and rankings[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[90] |  49-60  
_Forbes_[91] |  66  
_Times/WSJ_[92] |  19  
_U.S. News& World Report_[93] |  21  
_Washington Monthly_[94] |  62  
Global  
_ARWU_[95] |  101-150  
_QS_[96] |  147  
_Times_[97] |  82  
_U.S. News& World Report_[98] |  71  
  
Matheson Reading Room, Candler Library Annex, Robert W. Woodruff Library

Emory University is ranked 21st among national universities in the United
States and 71st among global universities by _U.S. News& World Report_ , 98th
among global universities and 18th in the United States in the Times Higher
Education World University Rankings for 2017-18[99]. The university has been
named both a Hidden Ivy and a "New Ivy".[100] The university was ranked 17th
among colleges and universities in the United States in a Wall Street Journal
survey.[101] Business Insider named Emory among the "50 smartest colleges in
America."[102] Emory is considered to have one of the best writing programs in
the United States and was ranked 1st among the list of the best colleges and
universities for writers by _The Huffington Post_ and _USA Today_.[103][104]
Emory University's programs consistently rank among the most competitive in
their fields by _U.S. News & World Report_. In 2015, the Wallace H. Coulter
Department of Biomedical Engineering Program was ranked 2nd in the United
States for the ninth consecutive year.[105] The Emory University School of
Medicine was ranked the 23rd Best Medical Research School in the U.S. in
2015.[106] Rollins School of Public Health was ranked 7th among public health
schools in the U.S. in 2015.[107] The Emory University School of Medicine
Physician Assistant Program was ranked 3rd among physician assistant programs
in the U.S. in 2015.[108] Emory University's Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of
Nursing was ranked 10th among Nursing Schools in the U.S. in 2015. The
university is ranked the 16th best college for veterans among national
universities in the U.S.[109]

Emory University is ranked 13th in Immunology, 22nd in Microbiology, 28th in
Psychiatry, 29th in Social Sciences and Public Health, 32nd in Clinical
Medicine, 37th in Neuroscience and Behavior, 45th in Pharmacology and
Toxicology, 50th in Biochemistry, and 67th in Molecular Biology and Genetics
in the world by _U.S. News and World Report_ Emory University is ranked 6th
among national universities in the United States in Social Psychology, 11th in
Behavioral Neuroscience, 18th in Clinical Psychology, 25th in Political
Science, 26th in English, 27th in History, 30th Biological Sciences, 35th in
Chemistry, 35th in Sociology, 38th in Psychology, 38th in Statistics, 64th in
Economics, 65th in Mathematics, 85th in Physics by _U.S. News & World
Report_.[110] The Emory University School of Law is ranked 19th among Law
Schools in the U.S. by _U.S. News & World Report_.[110] _The Princeton Review_
named the Emory University School of Law as one of the best 169 law schools in
the U.S. in 2014. Emory University's Goizueta Business School is ranked 19th
among Business Schools in the United States by _U.S. News & World
Report_.[110] _Bloomberg Businessweek_ ranked Goizueta Business School's BBA
Program 9th in the nation in 2014. _The Economist_ ranked Goizueta Business
School's MBA program 13th in the nation in 2014.

In 2012, following an internal investigation led by Emory Provost Earl Lewis
and Jones Day Law Firm, Emory University announced that members of Emory
University's Office of Admission and Institutional Research intentionally
misreported data concerning entering students' standardized test scores and
class rankings between 2000-2012 to standard reference sources and third
parties who rank colleges and universities.[111] For example, while the office
reported that 89% of its students graduated in the top 10% of their class,
only 75% actually had. Following the investigation, the individuals
responsible for the misreportings were fired or resigned and the university
issued a public apology.[112] The university made several corrective actions
in 2012 and 2013, including the hiring of independent data advisers, to ensure
accurate data collection and reporting in the future.[113]

### Research[edit]

Whitehead Biomedical Research Building, Emory University

Emory University has a Carnegie Classification of Institutions of Higher
Education status of RU/VH: "very high research activity". According to _The
Chronicle of Higher Education_ , the university is 5th among universities in
the United States with licensing revenue per dollars spent on research.[114]
The university is the 4th largest contributor in the nation to the discovery
of new drugs and vaccines among public-sector research institutions.[115] The
Universities Allied for Essential Medicines, ranked Emory 2nd among
universities in the United States and Canada for global health contributions
and research.[116] In 2015, Emory received $572.4 million from external
funding agencies.[117] Emory University leads the nation in the number of
students with Kirschstein-National Research Service Award pre-doctoral
fellowships from the National Institutes of Health.[118]

Emory University has a strong partnership with the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention (CDC). In 1947, the university donated 15 acres of land to the
United States Department of Health and Human Services for the construction of
the CDC headquarters.[119] The Emory University Prevention Research Center
(EPRC) and Emory Center for Injury Control are funded by the CDC.[39][120]
Emory University's African Center of Excellence for Public Health Security,
which seeks to improve preparedness and response to health threats in low-
income countries, is a five-year, multimillion-dollar cooperative program with
the CDC and International Association of National Public Health Institutes
(IANPHI).[121] The Emory University Center for Global Safe Water (CGSW), which
conducts applied research, evaluation, and training to promote global health
equity through universal access to safe water, sanitation, and hygiene, works
in collaboration with the CDC.[122][123] The Emory University Global Health
Institute, funded by the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, partners with the
CDC to enhance public health infrastructure in low-resource countries.[124]
The Emory University Hospital Isolation Unit and Quarantine Station was
established by the CDC following the 2003 SARS outbreak.[125] The isolation
and treatment facilities at Emory University played a crucial role in ending
the 2014 Ebola virus cases in the United States.[126] CDC scientists and
administrators hold memberships and frequently speak at Emory University's
Vaccine Dinner Club (VDC), an association that holds monthly academic meetings
to discuss and advance vaccine research.[127] In 2015, Emory was made a member
of the CDC's Prevention Epicenters Program, a research program in which CDC’s
Division of Healthcare Quality Promotion (DHQP) collaborates with academic
investigators to conduct innovative infection control and prevention
research.[128][129]

In 2015, Emory University, the London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine,
the Public Health Foundation of India, and the All India Institute of Medical
Sciences established the Center for Control of Chronic Conditions in New
Delhi, India. The center aims to improve the prevention and care of diabetes,
heart disease, cancer, mental health, and injuries in India.[130]

The International Association of National Public Health Institutes is based at
the university. The association was chartered in 2006 with a $20 million,
five-year grant through Emory University from the Bill and Melinda Gates
Foundation. In 2015, the Emory Global Health Institute and Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention were made lead partners for the newly created, $75
million Bill and Melinda Gates Foundation funded Child Health and Mortality
Prevention Surveillance Network (CHAMPS).[131]

Dowman Administration Building, Emory University

Emory University research is heavily funded by the United States Department of
Health and Human Services's National Institutes of Health.[52] The federal
agency awarded the university nearly $300 million in the fiscal year of
2015.[117] In 2015, Emory University was one of four institutions selected by
the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases for its seven-year,
multimillion-dollar Tuberculosis Research Units (TBRU) program, which aims to
drive innovation in tuberculosis research and reduce the global burden of the
disease.[43] In 2015, an Emory-led research consortium received a five-year,
15 million dollar grant from the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to
research human immune responses to Varicella zoster virus and pneumococcal
vaccination.[132] The university also received a $9 million grant over five
years from the NIH to support one of three national Centers for Collaborative
Research in Fragile X syndrome. The grant is a renewal of Emory’s National
Fragile X Research Center, continuously funded by the NIH for more than 10
years.[117] In 2015, the university received a $8.9 million grant over five
years from the NIH National Heart, Lung and Blood Institute(NHLBI) to better
understand the role of reactive oxygen species and inflammation in blood
vessel function and to explore new interventions and preventive approaches for
atherosclerosis and aortic aneurysms.[117] In 2015, the university received a
$8 million grant over five years from the NIH to develop and validate
mathematical models of how prior immunity affects recall immune responses to
influenza viruses. The researchers will create and disseminate powerful, user-
friendly modeling tools for use by the wider research community in developing
more effective vaccines.[117] In 2015, the university received a $3.6 million
grant over five years from the NIH to examine the effects of maternal stress
on brain function, development, and behavior in African-American infants,
including the biochemical connection between the brain and the
microbiome.[117] In 2015, the university received a $3.5 million grant over
five years from the NIH National Cancer Institute (NCI) for an Informatics
Technology for Cancer Research award. Winship Cancer Institute and Emory
School of Medicine researchers will develop software tools to help the cancer
research community gain new insights from cancer imaging “big data” and
develop new open-source cancer research applications.[117] In 2015, the
university received a $3.4 million grant from the NIH International
Collaborations in Infectious Disease Research Program to support a partnership
between the Emory Vaccine Center and the International Centre for Genetic
Engineering and Biotechnology (ICGEB) in New Delhi, India to study dengue
virus infection in India.[117]

The Emory University Center for AIDS Research (CFAR) and the Emory Vaccine
Center are world leaders in AIDS Vaccine Development and HIV Pathogenesis
studies are funded by nine different institutes of the National Institutes of
Health and by the Georgia Research Alliance.[38] The centers include one of
the largest groups of academic vaccine scientists in the world and are
currently attempting to develop an effective HIV vaccine.[133] Emory
University Researchers Dr. Dennis C. Liotta, Dr. Raymond F. Schinazi and Dr.
Woo-Baeg Choi discovered Emtricitabine, a nucleoside reverse transcriptase
inhibitor (NRTI) used in the treatment of HIV. The drug was named as one of
the world's most important antiviral drugs by the World Health Organization
and is included in their Model List of Essential Medicines.[134]

Emory University is a global leader in Ebola research and treatment. The
university was one of three institutions that successfully treated medical
evacuees during the 2014 Ebola Outbreak. In 2015, the United States Department
of Health and Human Services named Emory University the lead coordinating
center for the National Ebola Training and Education Center (NETEC).[42] The
university will collaborate with the University of Nebraska Medical Center,
the New York City Health and Hospitals Corporation, the Centers for Disease
Control and Prevention and the Office of the Assistant Secretary for
Preparedness and Response on the program, which will receive $12 million in
funding over the next five years.The program will support training of health
care providers and facilities to manage Ebola and other emerging infectious
diseases. Its objectives are to develop metrics to measure facility and health
care worker readiness to care for Ebola patients, conduct assessments of state
and regional Ebola Treatment Centers, create education materials related to
care of patients with possible Ebola and other special pathogens and offer
technical and training assistance to public health departments and health
facilities.[42] The university also received a $10.8 million grant over three
years from the U.S. Department of Defense's Defense Advanced Research Projects
Agency (DARPA) to lead a 10-institution national team developing improved
therapeutics and vaccines for multiple strains of Ebola virus.[117] In 2015,
Emory received a three-year, $2.2 million grant from the CDC to prevent the
spread of infectious diseases, including Ebola, in health-care
facilities.[129]

Emory and the Georgia Institute of Technology have a strong research
partnership. In 2015, Emory and Georgia Tech were awarded an $8.3 million
grant by the National Institutes of Health (NIH) to establish a National
Exposure Assessment Laboratory.[135] The Laboratory will research the impact
of environmental chemicals on children's health.[135] In 2015, the two
universities received a five-year, $2.9 million grant from the National
Science Foundation (NSF) to create new bachelor’s, master’s, and doctoral
degree programs and concentrations in healthcare robotics, which will be the
first program of its kind in the Southeastern United States.[136] In 2015,
Emory University, Georgia Tech, and Children’s Healthcare of Atlanta were
awarded a four-year, $1.8 million grant by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation in
order to expand the Atlanta Cystic Fibrosis Research and Development Program.
As of 2015, Emory jointly manages the second largest cystic fibrosis
population in the United States.[40] In 2015, Emory and Georgia Tech received
a $1.6 million grant from the Coulter Translational Research Partnership
Program to accelerate nine promising technologies developed in research
laboratories with commercialization potential.[117]

In 2015, Emory University received a $15 million grant from the Wounded
Warrior Project in order to establish the "Warrior Care Network" and develop
innovative approaches to treat veterans with post-traumatic stress disorder
(PTSD) and traumatic brain injury (TBI).[137]

In 2015, Emory University and the University of South Florida received a $2.5
million grant over five years from the John E. Fogarty International Center
(FIC) to study links between infectious disease transmission and agricultural
practices.[117]

## Campus[edit]

Aerial View of Emory University's Main Campus (Bottom) and The Centers for
Disease Control and Prevention (Top), Druid Hills, Georgia

Emory University's original campus was established in Oxford, Georgia in 1836.
The 56-acre campus, located 38 miles east of Emory's main Atlanta campus, is
home to Oxford College of Emory University and was the site of military
headquarters and infirmaries during the American Civil War.[57] Many of the
buildings were designed with Neoclassical architecture and Gothic Revival
architecture. In 1975, the United States National Register of Historic Places
designated the campus as part of the Oxford Historic District.[138]

Emory's main Atlanta campus, established in the early twentieth century on a
Beaux-Arts master plan by Pittsburgh architect Henry Hornbostel,[139] covers
more than 600 acres in Atlanta's historic suburb of Druid Hills.[140] The
university campus is heavily forested with pine, maples, oak, and magnolias,
and Peavine Creek, a branch of the Peachtree Creek, runs through the campus.
The Arbor Day Foundation named Emory a Tree Campus USA school in 2015.[141]
Many of the university's buildings are designed with multi-hued granite and
Spanish Saltillo tile. The university has one of the largest inventories by
square footage of Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design-certified
building space among campuses in the United States.[142] In 2015, The Best
Colleges, a Seattle-based educational ranking service, named Emory one of the
top ten "Most Amazing College Campuses."[140]

The campus is home to the Emory University Hospital, Michael C. Carlos Museum,
which has the largest collection of ancient artifacts in the Southeastern
United States, the Winship Cancer Institute, Georgia’s first and only cancer
center designated by the National Cancer Institute,[143] the Yerkes National
Primate Research Center, one of eight National Institutes of Health–funded
national primate research centers, and a number of other academic, art,
medical, and student facilitates. Undergraduate dormitories include the
Undergraduate Residential Center, Clairmont Residential Center, Tower
Apartments, Alabama Hall, Complex, Dobbs Hall, Holmes Hall, Longstreet-Means
Hall, Raoul Hall and Turman Hall. The Centers for Disease Control and
Prevention, American Cancer Society, Children's Healthcare of Atlanta Egleston
hospital, and Emory Point are located adjacent to the campus.

In 2015, a $52 million expansion and renovation project of the Sanford S.
Atwood Chemistry Center was completed. The new, 270,000 square-foot complex
features state of the art laboratories, interactive teaching and study spaces,
and a chemistry library.[144] The completion of the complex was accompanied by
a $1.2 million grant from the Howard Hughes Medical Institute to advance and
modernize the university's chemistry curriculum.[144]

In the Candler Library Annex of Robert W. Woodruff Library, there is a 1920s
Pietro Caproni reproduction of Bertel Thorvaldsen's "The Triumph of Alexander"
frieze. The frieze depicts Alexander the Great and his army entering Babylon
following their victory over the Achaemenid Empire in the Battle of
Gaugamela.[145]

During the 1996 Summer Olympics in Atlanta, Georgia, the university hosted the
United States Olympic women's gymnastics team on its main campus.[146] The
team, known as the Magnificent Seven, won the first ever gold medal for the
United States in the women's team all-around competition. The university
housed international officials and journalists and served as a training
facility for Olympians. The Cox Hall Ballroom was transformed into a news
center for the Olympic foreign press.[146]

In February 2017, Emory announced that its R. Howard Dobbs University Center,
built in 1986 from a neofuturistic postmodernist design by local architect
John C. Portman, Jr., to house the university's main student/faculty center
and dining hall (Coca-Cola Commons), would be demolished and replaced with a
new $98 million Campus Life Center, designed by Durham, North Carolina–based
Duda Paine Architects. Reasons given for the replacement included
inconvenience of food delivery to the dining hall, undersized kitchen
facilities, and inadequate fenestration in the Commons.[139]

## Student life[edit]

_Demographics of Emory University_ [147][148] |  Undergraduate  
and Graduate | U.S. Census  
  
---|---|---  
Asian/Pacific Islander | 15.3% | 5%  
Black/Non-Hispanic | 9.8% | 12%  
Hispanics of any race | 6.9% | 16%  
White/non-Hispanic | 43.% | 64%  
Mixed Race/Other | 6% | 9%  
International students | 14% | N/A  
  
### Student body[edit]

Emory University's total enrollment for the 2016-2017 academic year is 15,252
students, with 7,916 undergraduates and 7,336 graduate and professional
students. Students come from all 50 states and more than 65 countries.[149]
The student to faculty ratio is 7:1, with an average class size of 25
students.[150] Of the 1,389 students in the Class of 2018, 46% are Caucasian,
31% are Asian, 10% are Black/African American, 9% are Latino/Hispanic, and 3%
did not identity; 56% are female and 44% are male.[151] Emory University has
awarded 4,568 degrees during the 2014-2015 year. Of those awards 2,366 were
undergraduate and 2,202 were graduate.[152] Emory University's average GPA for
incoming freshman is a 3.70-3.97.[153]

### Arts[edit]

Students may engage in the performing and fine arts as an area of academic
study or as extracurricular activities. Undergraduates may pursue a major in
the performing arts (dance, theater, or music) or in film studies, art
history, visual arts, or creative writing.[154] Graduate programs in art
history, film studies, and music are offered.[155] There are more than 50
student organizations dedicated to the arts. Students can explore artistic
interests as diverse as architecture, breakdancing, poetry, and
improvisational comedy.[156] Emory routinely hosts arts events in the Schwartz
Center for Performing Arts that are open to the Emory and Atlanta communities.
Recent performances include Bang on a Can All-Stars (a side project of drummer
Glenn Kotche from the rock band Wilco), jazz performer Esperanza Spalding, and
New York’s Cedar Lake Dance Company. A program called Creativity Conversations
brings artistic minds to campus to discuss art and the creative process.
Guests have included Philip Glass, Jimmy Carter, Salman Rushdie, Seamus Heaney
and Rita Dove.[157][158][159] Rita Dove also gave the keynote address at
Emory's 2013 Commencement.[160]

### Athletics[edit]

Emory ranks among top schools in both the _U.S. News & World Report’s_
rankings of the best national universities and the Directors Cup of the
National Association of Collegiate Directors of Athletics for best all-around
athletics program.[161] Emory's 18 varsity sports teams, known as the Eagles,
are members of the NCAA’s Division III University Athletic Association (UAA).
However, Emory does not have an intercollegiate football team.[162]

Clock tower at Cox Hall

### Barkley Forum[edit]

The Barkley Forum Center for Debate Education is an intercollegiate debate
organization at Emory University.[163] The center is named in honor of Emory
alumnus, Alben Barkley, 35th Vice President of the United States, and is
directed by James Herndon. Melissa Maxcy Wade was the previous director until
2015. Debating was established at the university in 1837 and the
intercollegiate debate team was formed by Nolan A. Goodyear in 1914. Emory's
Barkley Forum debate team has won 3 National Debate Tournaments and over 25
individual champion speaker awards.[164]

### Community service[edit]

The university received the 2008 Presidential Award for General Community
Service, which is the highest federal recognition given to higher education
institutions for their commitment to community service, service-learning and
civic engagement.[165] About 25% of Emory students participate in Volunteer
Emory, Emory's umbrella community service group. As one of the most popular
groups on campus, Volunteer Emory offers dozens of ways to serve the
community, working with varied organizations including the Atlanta Community
Food Bank, Trees Atlanta, PAWS Atlanta, and Jones Boys and Girls Club.[166]
Emory Cares International Service Day brings together students, alumni and
other community members to volunteer at a number of projects organized by
Emory and its many partners around the city of Atlanta and in cities
worldwide.[167]

### Newspaper[edit]

_The Emory Wheel_ is the student-run newspaper of Emory University. The
_Wheel_ is published twice a week, on Tuesday and Friday, during the regular
school year, and is updated regularly at its website. Serving the Emory
community since 1919, the _Wheel_ is editorially and financially independent
from the University. The staff is composed entirely of students, with the
exception of the general manager, who oversees advertising and whose salary is
paid by the newspaper. [168][169]

###  Programs abroad[edit]

Through the Centers of International Programs Abroad, Emory University
students can study in over 40 countries at the top academic institutions in
the world including the National University of Singapore, Kyoto Consortium for
Japanese Studies, Nanjing University, Oxford University, Imperial College
London, the School of Oriental and African Studies, Yonsei University, Trinity
College Dublin, University of St. Andrews, University of Melbourne, University
of Amsterdam, University of Cape Town, and Tel Aviv University.[170]

### Residential life[edit]

Fraternities have existed on Emory's campus as early as 1840. One early
chronicler makes the case that Emory's "temple" of the Mystic Seven may have
been the first chapter of a national fraternity established anywhere in the
South. Today, the Greek-letter sororities and fraternities play an important
part in leavening Emory's campus life. For undergraduates, Greek life
comprises approximately 30% of the Emory student population. The Office of
Greek Life recognizes and regulates on-campus chapters of fraternities and
sororities.[171] Fraternities have on-campus housing located on Eagle Row, and
Sorority Village, a series of townhouses, faces the fraternity houses.[172]
Greek Life is an important social engagement for students, but it is not
totally exclusive—students from different sororities and fraternities
regularly socialize, and the college's emphasis on on-campus housing helps
students make friends inside and outside the Greek system.The intramural
sports program provides an athletic outlet for the entire Emory community.
Emory has numerous club sports[173] and a variety of recreational and
competitive intramural teams.[174] The Outdoor Emory Organization sponsors
weekend trips of outdoor activities such as rafting, rock climbing and
hiking.[175]

### Student organizations[edit]

Hundreds of student clubs and organizations operate on Emory's campus. These
include numerous student government, special interest, and service
organizations.The Student Government Association (SGA) charters and provides
most of the funding for other student groups, and represents students'
interests when dealing with the administration.[176] The SGA oversees
divisional councils, each coinciding with the undergraduate, graduate and
professional schools of the university. Notable among these are the College
Council (CC) which handles students concerns primarily for the undergraduate
body of the Emory College of Arts and Sciences and annually sponsors the State
of Race event, and the BBA Council which does similar activities for the
Goizueta Business School BBA Program. The Student Programming Council (SPC) is
the school's primary programming organization, responsible for planning five
events every year: Homecoming Week, Fall Band Party, Spring Band Party,
Swoopstock and Dooley's Week.[177] Emory also has several secret societies—the
Paladin Society, the D.V.S. Senior Honor Society, Ducemus, Speculum, and The
Order of Ammon.[178] Emory has a partnership with Coca-Cola in which they
pledged 3 million dollars over a 5-year period for "Service for Learning"
which projects that Emory student volunteers participate to help preserve
nature trails, create urban farms, as well as restore neighborhood parks.[179]
Emory University also has many Black student organizations, including: the
Black Student Alliance, the National Association for the Advacement of Colored
People (NAACP), and Voices of Inner Strength Gospel Choir (VOIS).

## Notable alumni and faculty[edit]

Main article: List of Emory University people

Author Salman Rushdie, Booker Prize-winning novelist, having a discussion with
Emory University students

Emory University has over 13,200 faculty and staff members and over 133,000
living alumni. Awards and honors recognizing Emory alumni and faculty include
the Nobel Prize, Pulitzer Prize, Presidential Medal of Freedom, Bancroft
Prize, Booker Prize, Lenore Marshall Poetry Prize, National Humanities Medal,
Peabody Award, Breakthrough Prize in Life Sciences, Guggenheim Fellowship,
Fulbright Fellowship, American Mathematical Society Fellowship, MacArthur
Fellows Program, Rhodes Scholarship, Marshall Scholarship, and membership in
the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Carnegie Foundation for the
Advancement of Teaching, Howard Hughes Medical Institute, American Society for
Clinical Investigation, National Academy of Sciences, and National Research
Council.[180][181]

Notable Alumni: Alben Barkley (BA 1900), 35th Vice President of the United
States; Isaac Stiles Hopkins (1859C) and Robert Stewart Hyer (BA 1881, MA
1882), founding presidents of Georgia Institute of Technology and Southern
Methodist University, respectively; Young John Allen (1858C), American
Methodist Missionary in the late Qing Dynasty, China; Thomas Milton Rivers
(1909C), Director of the Rockefeller Institute; Ernest Cadman Colwell (1923C,
1927PhD), President of the University of Chicago; Bobby Jones (Law 1929), the
only golfer to win a Grand Slam, founder of the Masters Golf Tournament, and
regarded as one of the greatest golfers of all time; Ely Callaway Jr. (1940C),
Founder of the Callaway Golf Company; Ernie Harwell (1940C), baseball
broadcaster for the Detroit Tigers; Arnall Patz (BA 1943, MD 1945),
ophthalmology researcher and Presidential Medal of Freedom recipient; Lewis
Roger Slaton (1949JD), District Attorney, Fulton County, Georgia; Lee Hong-koo
(1959C), 26th Prime Minister of the Republic of Korea; Newt Gingrich (BA
1965), 58th Speaker of the House of Representatives; Sonny Carter, NASA
astronaut, Crew member of STS-33 Space Shuttle mission (1969C); Peter Buck,
guitarist for the band R.E.M.; Kenneth Cole (BA 1976), clothing designer and
founder of Kenneth Cole Productions; Christopher McCandless (1990C), Alaskan
wilderness adventurer and main subject of Jon Krakauer's Into the Wild; Fala
Chen (2005C), Chinese American Actress; Kirsten Haglund (2013C), Miss America
2008; Duncan L. Niederauer, Chief Executive Officer of the New York Stock
Exchange (NYSE).[182]

Honorary Alumni: Kim Dae-jung, 8th President of South Korea; Vicente Fox,
Former President of Mexico; Mikhail Gorbachev, Former President of the Soviet
Union, Nobel Peace Prize recipient; Arnold Schwarzenegger, Austrian-American
actor, 38th Governor of California; Tom Brokaw, American journalist, author of
_The Greatest Generation_ (1998); John Lewis, "Big Six" leader of the Civil
Rights Movement; Henry Louis Gates, Jr., Emmy Award-winning filmmaker; Hugh
Thompson Jr., United States Army officer who ended the My Lai Massacre.

Distinguished faculty: Jimmy Carter, 39th President of the United States; Sir
Salman Rushdie, Booker Prize-winning novelist; Tenzin Gyatso, the 14th Dalai
Lama; Desmond Tutu, Nobel Peace Prize recipient; William Foege, 10th Centers
for Disease Control and Prevention Director; Nathan McCall, New York Times
bestselling author;[183] James T. Laney, 17th President of Emory University,
United States Ambassador to Korea from 1993 to 1997; Natasha Trethewey,
Pulitzer Prize winner; and US Poet Laureate and Dr. Sanjay Gupta, CNN chief
medical correspondent.[184][185]

  * Alben Barkley, 35th Vice President of the United States (1900C, 1949H)

  * Isaac S. Hopkins, First President of the Georgia Institute of Technology (1859C)

  * Yun Chi-ho, Author of Aegukga, National Anthem of South Korea (1893C)

  * Thomas Milton Rivers, Director of Rockefeller Institute, "Father of Modern Virology" (1909C)

  * Bobby Jones, Only golfer to win a Grand Slam and founder of the Masters Tournament (1929JD)

  * Robert W. Woodruff, President of The Coca-Cola Company from 1923 until 1954

  * Kiyoshi Tanimoto, Hibakusha portrayed in John Hersey's Hiroshima (book), Organized the Hiroshima Maidens Program (1940T, 1986H)

  * Larry Leon Palmer, United States Ambassador to Barbados and the Eastern Caribbean (1970C)

  * Bernice King, American minister and activist, the youngest child of Martin Luther King, Jr. and Coretta Scott King (1990JD)

  * Natasha Trethewey, 19th US Poet Laureate, Robert W. Woodruff Professor of English and Creative Writing

  * Desmond Tutu, South African social rights activist, Recipient of 1984 Nobel Peace Prize for opposition to Apartheid (Professor)

  * Han Qide Vice Chairman of National People's Congress, People's Republic of China (Professor)

  * William Foege, 10th Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Director, Credited for global eradication of Smallpox (Professor)

  * Tenzin Gyatso, 14th Dalai Lama, Recipient of 1989 Nobel Peace Prize and Congressional Gold Medal in 2007 (Professor)

  * Jimmy Carter, 39th President of the United States, Recipient of 2002 Nobel Peace Prize (Professor)

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Emory University History". _Emoryhistory.emory.edu_. Retrieved  February 22, 2014. 
  2. **^** _Separated brethren: a review of Protestant, Anglican, Eastern Orthodox & other religions in the United States_. Our Sunday Visitor. Retrieved March 27, 2010. Among Protestant denominations, Methodists take first place in hospitals and colleges. Some of their one hundred colleges and universities have all but severed ties with the denominations, but others remain definitely Methodist: Syracuse, Boston, Emory, Duke, Drew, Denver, and Southern Methodist. The church operates 360 schools and institutions overseas. Methodists established Goodwill Industries in 1907 to help handicapped persons help themselves by repairing and selling old furniture and clothes. The United Methodist Church runs seventy-two hospitals in the United States. 
  3. **^** "Schools by Jurisdiction". United Methodist Church. Archived from the original on December 16, 2009. Retrieved  November 26, 2009. 
  4. **^** As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  5. **^** "Office of the President". Retrieved  September 2, 2016. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Facts and Figures". Emory University. Retrieved  September 28, 2017. 
  7. **^** "The Emory Wheel Endowment". _Emorywheel.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  8. **^** "Emory University Identity Colors". Archived from the original on February 15, 2014. Retrieved  February 22, 2014. 
  9. **^** "Emory University NCAA". Retrieved  February 22, 2014. 
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Association of American Universities". _Aau.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  11. **^** "SACS". _Aau.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  12. **^** "ACE". _2.acenet.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  13. **^** NAICU – Member Directory Archived November 9, 2015, at the Wayback Machine.
  14. **^** "International Association of Methodist Schools, Colleges, and Universities (IAMSCU) - General Board of Higher Education and Ministry". _Web.archive.org_. November 11, 2016. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  15. **^** "ORAU Emory University". _Orau.org_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  16. **^** "Druid Hills CDP, GA Archived November 25, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.." _United States Census Bureau_. Retrieved on May 5, 2009.
  17. **^** "City of Atlanta's expansion to Emory and CDC approved". _www.ajc.com_. Retrieved  December 5, 2017. 
  18. **^** " _Emory_ : History & Traditions". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  19. **^** " _New Georgia Encyclopedia_ :Emory University". _Georgiaencyclopedia.org_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  20. **^** "Emory University". _Times Higher Education (THE)_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  21. **^** "WSJ Graphics". _Wsj.com_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  22. **^** [1] [ _dead link_ ]
  23. **^** "Emory University - Academic Ranking of World Universities - 2017 - Shanghai Ranking - 2017". _Shanghairanking.com_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  24. **^** "Emory University". _Shanghairanking.com_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  25. **^** "The 10 best American colleges for writers". _College.usatoday.com_. April 26, 2011. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  26. **^** "Carnegie Classifications - Institution Lookup". _Carnegieclassifications.iu.edu_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  27. **^** "Emory University website". Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  28. **^** "Georgia Tech / Emory / Peking University BME PhD Program". _Bme.gatech.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  29. **^** "Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering Program". _Nme.gatech.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  30. **^** "Confucius Institutes Around the Globe". _Confuciusinstitute.unl.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  31. **^** "Confucius Institute in Atlanta". _Confuciu.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  32. **^** "Georgia Tech-Emory-KAIST Biomedical Engineering Faculty". _Kaist.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  33. **^** "Summer Biomedical Engineering Workshop in Daejeon, South Korea". _Bme.gatech.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  34. **^** "Comparative Investigations of Cp*-Based Group 9 Metal-Catalyzed Direct C–H Amination of Benzamides".  
  35. **^** "Emory University International Students". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  36. **^** Emory Healthcare. "About Emory Healthcare". Retrieved August 3, 2011. 
  37. **^** [2] [ _dead link_ ]
  38. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Center for AIDS Research". _Cfar.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  39. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Prevention Research Center". _Cdc.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  40. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Grants $1.8 million to Expand the Atlanta CF Research and Development Program". _Cysticfibrosisnewstoday.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  41. **^** "The Malaria Host Pathogen Interaction Center (MaHPIC) – Emory University". _Niaid.nih.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  42. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Emory University to lead National Ebola Training and Education Center". _Bizjournals.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  43. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NIH Tuberculosis Research Program". _Niaid.nih.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  44. **^** "History". _Ianphi.org_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  45. **^** "Facilities & Affiliations -- School of Medicine, Emory University". _Med.emory.edu_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  46. **^** "The Carter Center – Waging Peace. Fighting Disease". _The Carter Center_.  
  47. **^** " _Forbes_ : 22 Richest Schools In America". _Forbes.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  48. **^** " 'The World's 50 Wealthiest Universities". _Nonprofitcollegesonline.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  49. **^** " _U.S. News & World Report_: National University Rankings". Archived from the original on May 21, 2011. 
  50. **^** "CWTS Leiden Ranking". _Leidenranking.comAau.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  51. **^** [3] [ _dead link_ ]
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Emory University gets record $572.4M in external research funding in 2015". _Bizjournals.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  53. **^** "New Georgia Encyclopedia, Asa Candler (1851-1929)". _Georgiaencyclopedia.org_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  54. **^** "Road Trip: Emory University". _Usnews.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  55. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Hauk, Gary S. "A Brief History". Emory University. Archived from the original on October 30, 2013. Retrieved May 27, 2009. 
  56. **^** "George Thomas Anderson". _Findagrave.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ English, Thomas H. _Emory University 1915–1965: A Semicentennial History_ (Atlanta: Emory University, 1966).
  58. **^** "A Direct Line to Emory's History - Emory University - Atlanta, GA". _shared.web.emory.edu_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  59. **^** "애국가". Academy of Korean Studies. Retrieved  October 8, 2013. 
  60. **^** "South Korea – Aegukga". NationalAnthems.me. Retrieved  November 17, 2011. 
  61. **^** "A look inside the WWII surrender ceremony". _Latimes.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  62. **^** Frost, Mark (2004). _The Grand Slam: Bobby Jones, America, and the Story of Golf_. New York: Hyperion Books. pp.  458–9. ISBN 978-1-4013-0751-6. 
  63. **^** "Alfred A. Weinstein". _Amazon.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  64. **^** "Kiyoshi Tanimoto". _Emoryhistory.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  65. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "New Georgia Encyclopedia, Emory University". _Georgiaencyclopedia.org_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Kim Dae Jung speech, 1983". _Findingaids.library.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  67. **^** "Kim Dae Jung Facts". _Kdjlibrary.library.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  68. **^** "Emory University President's Medal". _President.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  69. **^** "Emory to establish John Lewis Chair in Civil Rights, Social Justice". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  70. **^** "Emory College of Arts and Sciences website". Archived from the original on August 26, 2011. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  71. **^** "UGA, Emory University partner to offer dual master's degree in social work, divinity". _Bizjournals.com_. Retrieved  May 18, 2015. 
  72. **^** "Oxford College, Divisions & Courses".  
  73. **^** "Emory University School of Medicine, Departments and Centers". _Med.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  74. **^** "Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing". Archived from the original on January 9, 2015.  
  75. **^** "404 Error - Emory University - Atlanta, GA". _candler.emory.edu_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  76. **^** "Emory Law - Emory University School of Law - Atlanta, GA". _Emory University School of Law_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  77. **^** "Laney Graduate School, Degrees". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  78. **^** "Goizueta Business School". _Goizueta.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  79. **^** "Rollins School of Public Health, Degrees". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  80. **^** Administrator. "List of ARL Members - Association of Research Libraries® - ARL®". _Arl.org_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  81. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ [4] [ _dead link_ ]
  82. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Academics - Emory Libraries Resources for Emory University - UniversityParent". _Universityparent.com_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  83. **^** "Emory University Libraries and Information Technology". _Web.library.emory.edu_. Retrieved 20 October 2017l.  
  84. **^** "MARBL Receives 'Crusoe' Editions". _The Emory Wheel_. November 24, 2008. Archived from the original on July 10, 2011. Retrieved  August 3, 2010. 
  85. **^** "Emory archive acquires Atlanta Contemporary Art Center's records". _Artsculture.blog.ajc.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  86. **^** "Subject Librarians". _Web.library.emory.edu_. Robert W. Woodruff Library. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  87. **^** "Robert W. Woodruff Library, Award and Research Programs". _Web.library.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  88. **^** "The 10 Colleges With The Best Libraries: Princeton Review List". _Huffingtonpost.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  89. **^** "The Most Beautiful College Libraries in the World, Flavorwire". _Flavorwire.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  90. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  91. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  92. **^** "U.S. College Rankings 2018". Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education. Retrieved  November 23, 2017. 
  93. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  94. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  95. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  96. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  97. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  98. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  99. **^** "Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings 2017". _Timeshighereducation.com_. October 11, 2016. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  100. **^** "America's 25 New Elite 'Ivies '". 
  101. **^** "USC ranked No. 15 nationally in new, comprehensive Wall Street Journal survey".  
  102. **^** "The 50 smartest colleges in America". _Businessinsider.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  103. **^** "The 10 Best Colleges For Aspiring Writers". _Huffingtonpost.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  104. **^** "The 10 best American colleges for writers". _College.usatoday.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  105. **^** " 'Best Biomedical Engineering / Bioengineering Programs". _Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  106. **^** "Best Medical Schools - Research Rankings - Top Medical Schools for Research - US News Best Graduate Schools". _Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  107. **^** " 'Best Public Health Programs". _Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  108. **^** " 'Best Physician Assistant Schools". _Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  109. **^** "Best Colleges for Veterans". _Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  110. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "U.S. News and World Report, U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings". _Colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  111. **^** "Emory scandal: Critics doubt college ratings". _Ajc.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  112. **^** "Emory Intentionally Misreported Admission Numbers, Internal Investigation Finds". _Emorywheel.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  113. **^** "Corrective Action Plan for Data Collection and Reporting". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  114. **^** Basken, Paul (August 16, 2013). "UCLA, Eyeing Profits, Entrusts Tech Transfer to Industry Experts". _The Chronicle of Higher Education_ : A12. 
  115. **^** Stevens, Ashley J.; Jensen, Jonathan J.; Wyller, Katrine; Kilgore, Patrick C.; Chatterjee, Sabarni; Rohrbaugh, Mark L. (February 10, 2011). "The Role of Public-Sector Research in the Discovery of Drugs and Vaccines". _New England Journal of Medicine_. **364** (6): 535–541. doi:10.1056/NEJMsa1008268. PMID 21306239. Retrieved  October 20, 2017 – via Taylor and Francis+NEJM. 
  116. **^** "University Report Card: Global Equity in Biomedical Research". _globalhealthgrades.org_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  117. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ "Emory receives record $572.4 million in external research funding for 2015". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  118. **^** "Emory ranks first in the U.S. for students with NIH predoctoral fellowships". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  119. **^** [5] [ _dead link_ ]
  120. **^** "Funded Injury Control Research Centers (ICRCs)". _Cdc.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  121. **^** "African Center for Public Health Security". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  122. **^** "The Safe Water System, Kenya" (PDF). _Cdc.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  123. **^** "The Safe Water System". _Cdc.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  124. **^** "CDC Global Public Health Network". _Ianphi.org_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  125. **^** [6] [ _dead link_ ]
  126. **^** "Cases of Ebola Diagnosed in the United States". _Cdc.gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  127. **^** "Emory Vaccine Dinner Club". Archived from the original on February 27, 2015.  
  128. **^** "About the Prevention Epicenters Program". _Cdc/gov_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  129. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "CDC awards Emory University $2.2M grant". _Bizjournals.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  130. **^** "Emory supports quest to defeat diabetes in India". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  131. **^** "Child Health and Mortality Prevention Surveillance Network".  
  132. **^** "NIH renews $15 million grant for improving vaccine success". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  133. **^** "9 things you didn't know about Atlanta". _Accessatlanta.com_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  134. **^** "WHO Model List of EssentialMedicines" (PDF). _World Health Organization_. October 2013. Retrieved  March 11, 2015. 
  135. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Emory receives $8.3 million to establish research laboratory". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  136. **^** "Georgia Tech, Emory unite to train healthcare roboticists". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  137. **^** "Home Base gives vets hope in PTSD battle". _Bostonglobe.com_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  138. **^** "Oxford Historic District, Newton County, Georgia". _National Register of Historic Places_. July 25, 2015.  
  139. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Wachs, Audrey. "Emory University to replace a remarkable John Portman building with a new campus center." _The Architects Newspaper_ , February 13, 2017.
  140. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The 50 Most Beautiful College Campuses: 2015 Edition". _The Best Colleges_.  
  141. **^** "Tree Campus USA Schools". Arbor Day Foundation. April 2015. Retrieved  October 24, 2015. 
  142. **^** "Green Building/Green Space". Emory Sustainability Initiative. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  143. **^** "Accomplishments and Milestones". Winship Cancer Institute website. Retrieved  March 10, 2011. 
  144. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Atwood Chemistry Center". _News.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  145. **^** " "The Triumph of Alexander" Restored". _College.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  146. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Emory's Olympic legacy". Retrieved  August 8, 2015. 
  147. **^** "Emory University Facts & Statistics". Niche. Retrieved  July 25, 2015. 
  148. **^** See Demographics of the United States for references.
  149. **^** "Facts and Figures About Emory". Archived from the original on December 4, 2014.  
  150. **^** "faculty Research & Teaching, Emory University". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  151. **^** "Admission Profile >> Fast Facts >> Discover >> Office of Undergraduate Admission >> Emory University". _Apply.emory.edu_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  152. **^** "Facts and Figures About Emory | Emory University | Emory University | Atlanta, GA". _Emory.edu_. Archived from the original on December 4, 2014. Retrieved  2016-04-06. 
  153. **^** "Admission Profile >> Fast Facts >> Discover >> Office of Undergraduate Admission >> Emory University". _Apply.emory.edu_. Retrieved  2016-04-06. 
  154. **^** "About Arts at Emory". Emory University. Retrieved  July 16, 2010. 
  155. **^** "Degree Programs". Laney Graduate School. Retrieved  July 16, 2010. 
  156. **^** "Student Arts Groups". Emory University. Archived from the original on July 27, 2010. Retrieved  July 16, 2010. 
  157. **^** "Creativity Conversations". Emory University. Archived from the original on June 10, 2010. Retrieved  July 16, 2010. 
  158. **^** _Creativity Conversation with Rita Dove and Natasha Trethewey_. YouTube. April 8, 2011.  
  159. **^** _Creativity Conversation with Rita Dove, Alvin Singleton, and Robert Spano_. YouTube. April 8, 2011.  
  160. **^** _Commencement Keynote 2013_. YouTube. May 14, 2013.  
  161. **^** "Emory University website". Archived from the original on July 9, 2011. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  162. **^** "Emory Eagles website". Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  163. **^** "Barkley Forum". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  July 25, 2015. 
  164. **^** "National Tournament Results". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  July 25, 2015. 
  165. **^** "Emory Receives Top Service Recognition". _The Emory Wheel_. September 2, 2009. Archived from the original on January 19, 2012. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  166. **^** "Volunteer Emory". Emory University. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  167. **^** "Emory Alumni Association website". Archived from the original on October 29, 2011. Retrieved  November 16, 2011. 
  168. **^** "About". _The Emory Wheel_. Retrieved  July 30, 2009. 
  169. **^** "About". _The Emory Wheel_. Retrieved  March 22, 2010. 
  170. **^** "Centers of International Programs Abroad, Emory University". _Abroad.emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  171. **^** "Office of Sorority and Fraternity Life". _Osfl.campuslifetech.org_. Retrieved  November 16, 2011. 
  172. **^** "Residence Life & Housing website". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  November 16, 2011. 
  173. **^** "Emory Club Sports website". _Rec.emory.edu_. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  174. **^** "Emory Intramurals website". Archived from the original on July 11, 2011. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  175. **^** "Outdoor Emory Organization". Archived from the original on July 18, 2011. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  176. **^** "Emory University SGA — Student Government Association". Students.emory.edu. Archived from the original on May 8, 2009. Retrieved  July 30, 2009. 
  177. **^** "Emory SPC - Official Website". Students.emory.edu. Retrieved  October 22, 2010. 
  178. **^** "Emory University main website". Retrieved  November 16, 2011. 
  179. **^** "Coca-Cola Foundation Supports Emory's Education, Sustainability Initiatives | Emory University | Atlanta, GA". _Shared.web.emory.edu_. Retrieved  2016-04-06. 
  180. **^** "Emory University website". Retrieved  July 15, 2011. 
  181. **^** "Emory University website". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  20 October 2017. 
  182. **^** "Famous Alumni - Points of Pride - Emory University - Emory University - Atlanta, GA". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  183. **^** "Emory University website". Archived from the original on August 4, 2015.  
  184. **^** "Emory University website". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  July 18, 2011. 
  185. **^** "Distinguished Professors - Points of Pride - Emory University - Emory University - Atlanta, GA". _Emory.edu_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * "Emory University", in _New Georgia Encyclopedia_. Retrieved July 1, 2006.
  * "Emory University", in _Encyclopedia of Southern Culture_ , ed. C. R. Wilson and William Ferris (Chapel Hill: University of North Carolina Press, 1989).
  * English, Thomas H. _Emory University 1915–1965: A Semicentennial History_. Atlanta: Emory University, 1966.
  * Gleason, Jan. "Emory ranked 9th-best national university by U.S. News & World Report magazine" in _Emory Report_ 50, no. 1 (1997).
  * Hauk, Gary S. _A Legacy of Heart and Mind: Emory since 1836_ (Atlanta: Emory University, developed and produced by Bookhouse Group, Inc., 1999).
  * Hauk, Gary S. _Where Courageous Inquiry Leads_ [Atlanta; Emory University, 2010.
  * Young, James Harvey. "A Brief History of Emory University", in _Emory College Catalog 2003–2005_ (Atlanta: Emory University Office of University Publications, 2003), 9–15.

##  External links[edit]

  * Official website
  * Emory Athletics website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Emory University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * Candler School of Theology
  * Emory College of Arts and Sciences
  * Goizueta Business School
  * Laney Graduate School
  * Oxford College
  * Robert W. Woodruff Health Sciences Center 
    * Emory Healthcare
    * School of Medicine
    * Nell Hodgson Woodruff School of Nursing
    * Rollins School of Public Health
    * Winship Cancer Institute
    * Yerkes National Primate Research Center
  * School of Law
  * Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering (with Georgia Tech)

|  
  
Campus & facilities |

  * Atlanta
  * Briarcliff Campus
  * Carlos Museum
  * Carter Center
  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  * Donna and Marvin Schwartz Center for Performing Arts
  * Emory Eagles
  * Emory University Hospital
  * _The Emory Wheel_
  * Glenn Memorial Church
  * Lullwater House (President's mansion)
  * Lullwater Park
  * MARBL
  * Robert W. Woodruff Library

  
  
People |

  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

University Athletic Association  
  
---  
  
  * Brandeis **Judges**
  * Carnegie Mellon **Tartans**
  * Case Western Reserve **Spartans**
  * Chicago **Maroons**
  * Emory **Eagles**
  * NYU **Violets**
  * Rochester **Yellowjackets**
  * Washington University **Bears**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

College sports teams in Georgia  
  
---  
NCAA Division I |

  * Georgia
  * Georgia Southern
  * Georgia State
  * Georgia Tech
  * Kennesaw State
  * Mercer
  * Savannah State

  
  
NCAA Division II |

  * Albany State
  * Armstrong State
  * Augusta
  * Clark Atlanta
  * Clayton State
  * Columbus State
  * Emmanuel
  * Fort Valley State
  * Georgia College
  * Georgia Southwestern
  * Morehouse
  * North Georgia
  * Paine
  * Shorter
  * Valdosta State
  * West Georgia
  * Young Harris

  
  
NCAA Division III |

  * Agnes Scott
  * Berry
  * Covenant
  * Emory
  * LaGrange
  * Oglethorpe
  * Piedmont
  * Wesleyan

  
  
NAIA Divisions I and II |

  * Brenau
  * Brewton–Parker
  * Coastal Georgia
  * Dalton State
  * Georgia Gwinnett
  * Life
  * Middle Georgia
  * Point
  * Reinhardt
  * Savannah Art and Design
  * Savannah Art & Design–Atlanta
  * Thomas
  * Truett McConnell

  
  
NJCAA Division I |

  * Abraham Baldwon
  * Albany Tech
  * Atlanta Metropolitan
  * Chattahoochee Tech
  * Darton State
  * East Georgia
  * Georgia Highlands
  * Georgia Military
  * Georgia Perimeter
  * Gordon State
  * Middle Georgia
  * South Georgia Tech
  * Waycross

  
  
NCCAA Divisions I and II |

  * Carver
  * Emmanuel
  * Point
  * Shorter
  * Toccoa Falls

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Georgia private colleges and universities  
  
---  
  
  * Agnes Scott College
  * American Intercontinental University
  * Andrew College
  * Argosy University
  * Art Institute of Atlanta
  * Atlanta College of Art
  * Bauder College
  * Berry College
  * Brenau University
  * Clark Atlanta University
  * Columbia Theological Seminary
  * Covenant College
  * Emmanuel College
  * Emory University
  * Interdenominational Theological Center
  * LaGrange College
  * Life University
  * Mercer University
  * Morehouse College
  * Morehouse School of Medicine
  * Morris Brown College
  * Oglethorpe University
  * Oxford College of Emory University
  * Paine College
  * Piedmont College
  * Point University
  * Reinhardt University
  * Savannah College of Art and Design
  * Shorter University
  * South University
  * Spelman College
  * Thomas University
  * Toccoa Falls College
  * Truett McConnell University
  * Wesleyan College
  * Westwood College
  * Young Harris College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

International Association of Methodist-related Schools, Colleges, and
Universities  
  
---  
  
  * Adrian
  * Alaska Pacific
  * Albion
  * Albright
  * Allegheny
  * American
  * Andrew
  * Baker
  * Baldwin Wallace
  * Bennett
  * Bethune–Cookman
  * Birmingham-Southern
  * Boston University
  * Brevard
  * Centenary (Louisiana)
  * Centenary University
  * Central Methodist
  * Claflin
  * Clark Atlanta
  * Columbia College (South Carolina)
  * Cornell College
  * Dakota Wesleyan
  * Denver
  * DePauw
  * Dickinson College
  * Dillard
  * Drew
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Emory & Henry
  * Evansville
  * Ferrum
  * Florida Southern
  * Green Mountain
  * Greensboro
  * Hamline
  * Hendrix
  * High Point
  * Hiwassee
  * Huntingdon
  * Huston-Tillotson
  * Illinois Wesleyan
  * Indianapolis
  * Iowa Wesleyan
  * Kansas Wesleyan
  * Kendall
  * Kentucky Wesleyan
  * LaGrange
  * Lambuth
  * Lebanon Valley
  * Lindsey Wilson
  * Lon Morris
  * Louisburg
  * Lycoming
  * MacMurray
  * Martin Methodist
  * McKendree
  * McMurry
  * Meharry Medical
  * Methodist
  * Millsaps
  * Morningside
  * Mount Union
  * Nebraska Methodist
  * Nebraska Wesleyan
  * North Carolina Wesleyan
  * North Central
  * Northwestern University
  * Ohio Northern
  * Ohio Wesleyan
  * Oklahoma City
  * Otterbein
  * Oxford of Emory
  * Pacific
  * Paine
  * Pfeiffer
  * Puget Sound
  * Philander Smith
  * Randolph
  * Randolph-Macon
  * Reinhardt
  * Rocky Mountain
  * Rust
  * Shenandoah
  * Simpson College
  * Southern Methodist
  * Southwestern College (Kansas)
  * Southwestern University
  * Spartanburg Methodist
  * Syracuse
  * Tennessee Wesleyan
  * Texas Wesleyan
  * Union (Kentucky)
  * Virginia Wesleyan
  * Wesley College (Delaware)
  * Wesleyan College
  * West Virginia Wesleyan
  * Wiley
  * Willamette
  * Wofford
  * Young Harris

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in metropolitan Atlanta  
  
---  
  
  * Agnes Scott College
  * Art Institute of Atlanta
  * Ashworth College
  * Atlanta Christian College
  * Atlanta Metropolitan College
  * Atlanta's John Marshall Law School
  * Bauder College
  * Chattahoochee Technical College
  * Christian College of Georgia
  * Clark Atlanta University
  * Clayton State University
  * Columbia Theological Seminary
  * Emory University
  * Georgia Gwinnett College
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * Georgia Perimeter College
  * Georgia State University
  * Gwinnett Technical College
  * Interdenominational Theological Center
  * Kennesaw State University
  * Laurus Technical Institute
  * Morehouse College
  * Morehouse School of Medicine
  * Morris Brown College
  * Oglethorpe University
  * Southern Polytechnic State University
  * Spelman College
  * University of West Georgia

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

568 Group  
  
---  
  
  * Amherst College
  * Boston College
  * Claremont McKenna College
  * College of the Holy Cross
  * Columbia University
  * Cornell University
  * Dartmouth College
  * Davidson College
  * Duke University
  * Emory University
  * Georgetown University
  * Grinnell College
  * Haverford College
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * Middlebury College
  * Northwestern University
  * Pomona College
  * St. John's College
  * Swarthmore College
  * University of Notre Dame
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * Vanderbilt University
  * Wellesley College
  * Williams College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Atlanta landmarks  
  
---  
  
|

Current  
  
---  
  
| Commercial |

  * Atlantic Station
  * AmericasMart
  * Clermont Lounge
  * Five Points Coca-Cola sign
  * Lenox Square
  * Mary Mac's Tea Room
  * Phipps Plaza
  * Ponce City Market
  * Underground Atlanta
  * The Varsity

  
  
---|---  
Governmental |

  * Atlanta City Hall
  * Elbert P. Tuttle United States Court of Appeals Building
  * Federal Penitentiary
  * Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta
  * Georgia Governor's Mansion
  * Georgia Railroad Freight Depot
  * Georgia State Capitol
    * _Miss Freedom_

  
  
Monuments |

  * _Atlanta from the Ashes (The Phoenix)_
  * Carnegie Education Pavilion
  * Millennium Gate
  * Oakland Cemetery
  * Stone Mountain Confederate Memorial
  * World Athletes Monument

  
  
Museums |

  * APEX Museum
  * Atlanta Contemporary Art Center
  * Atlanta Cyclorama & Civil War Museum
  * Atlanta History Center
  * Callanwolde Fine Arts Center
  * Children's Museum of Atlanta
  * College Football Hall of Fame
  * Delta Flight Museum
  * Fernbank Museum of Natural History
  * Fernbank Science Center
  * Hammonds House Museum
  * High Museum of Art
  * Jimmy Carter Library and Museum
  * Joel Chandler Harris House (Wren's Nest)
  * King Plow Arts Center
  * Margaret Mitchell House and Museum
  * Martin Luther King Jr. National Historic Site
  * Michael C. Carlos Museum
  * Museum of Contemporary Art of Georgia
  * Museum of Design Atlanta
  * National Center for Civil and Human Rights
  * Rhodes Memorial Hall House Museum
  * Robert C. Williams Paper Museum
  * William Breman Jewish Heritage & Holocaust Museum
  * World of Coca-Cola

  
  
Parks and  
wildlife |

  * Atlanta Botanical Garden
  * BeltLine
  * Stone Mountain
  * Centennial Olympic Park
  * Chastain Park
  * Chattahoochee River
  * Fernbank Forest
  * Georgia Aquarium
  * Grant Park
  * Historic Fourth Ward Park
  * Zoo Atlanta
  * Piedmont Park
  * Woodruff Park

  
  
Performing  
arts |

  * Alliance Theatre
  * Atlanta Symphony Hall
  * Atlanta Civic Center
  * Buckhead Theatre
  * Center for Puppetry Arts
  * Fox Theatre
  * Goat Farm Arts Center
  * King Plow Arts Center
  * Plaza Theatre
  * Shakespeare Tavern
  * The Masquerade
  * The Tabernacle
  * Tara Theatre
  * Variety Playhouse
  * Woodruff Arts Center

  
  
Residential  
(former) |

  * Asa G. Candler Jr. (Callanwolde)

  * Water T. Candler (Lullwater)* Joel Chandler Harris (Wren's Nest)
  * Alonzo F. Herndon
  * Edward H. Inman (Swan House)
  * Martin Luther King, Jr.
  * Ferdinand McMillan (The Castle)
  * Margaret Mitchell
  * Edward C. Peters (Ivy Hall)
  * Amos Giles Rhodes (Rhodes Hall)
  * Rufus M. Rose
  * Craigie House

  
  
Skyscrapers |

| Historic  
(pre-WWII) |

  * Candler (1906)
  * Flatiron (1897)
  * Healey (1914)
  * Hurt (1926)
  * J. Mack Robinson (Empire) (1901)
  * The Metropolitan (1911)
  * Rhodes-Haverty (1929)
  * Southern Bell (1929)
  * William-Oliver (1930)
  * Winecoff Hotel (1913)

  
  
---|---  
Downtown |

  * 25 Park Place (Trust Company of Georgia)
  * 55 Marietta Street (Fulton National Bank)
  * 191 Peachtree Tower
  * Centennial Tower
  * Equitable
  * Five Points Plaza
  * Fourth National Bank building
  * Georgia Power
  * Georgia-Pacific Tower
  * Hyatt Regency Atlanta
  * Marriott Marquis
  * One Park Tower
  * Peachtree Center
  * Peachtree Summit
  * State of Georgia Building
  * SunTrust Plaza
  * TWELVE Centennial Park
  * Westin Peachtree Plaza Hotel

  
  
Midtown |

  * 12th & Midtown (1010 Midtown
  * 10 Sixty Five Midtown
  * 1075 Peachtree)
  * 1100 Peachtree
  * 1180 Peachtree
  * 1280 West
  * AT&T Midtown Center
  * Atlantic Center Plaza
  * Atlantic Station (171 17th Street
  * The Atlantic)
  * Bank of America Plaza
  * The Campanile
  * Coca-Cola
  * Colony Square
  * CNN Center
  * Four Seasons Hotel Atlanta/GLG Grand
  * Georgian Terrace Hotel
  * Mayfair Condominiums
  * One Atlantic Center (IBM Tower)
  * Promenade II
  * Spire
  * ViewPoint

  
  
Buckhead |

  * 2828 Peachtree
  * 3344 Peachtree
  * 3630 Peachtree
  * Atlanta Financial Center
  * Atlanta Plaza
  * Buckhead Grand
  * Mandarin Oriental
  * Paramount at Buckhead
  * Park Avenue Condominiums
  * Park Place
  * The Pinnacle
  * Realm
  * Resurgens Plaza
  * Terminus
  * Tower Place

  
  
Perimeter Center |

  * Concourse Corporate Center V & VI (King & Queen towers)
  * Park Towers I & II
  * Three Ravinia Drive

  
  
Sports venues |

  * Bobby Dodd Stadium
  * Georgia State Stadium
  * GSU Sports Arena
  * McCamish Pavilion
  * Mercedes-Benz Stadium
  * Philips Arena
  * SunTrust Park

  
  
|

Former  
  
---  
  
  * 688 Club
  * Atlanta Cabana Motel
  * Atlanta Hotel
  * Atlanta–Fulton County Stadium
  * Atlanta (Confederate) Rolling Mill
  * Atlantic Steel Mill
  * Centennial Olympic Stadium†
  * Coca-Cola Olympic City
  * DeGive's Opera House
  * Equitable Building (1892)
  * Fourth National Bank
  * Georgia Dome
  * 3rd Georgia Governor's Mansion (John H. James mansion)
  * Henry Grady Hotel
  * Hotel Aragon
  * Kimball House
  * Loew's Grand Theatre
  * Masonic Temple
  * National Museum of Patriotism
  * Omni Coliseum
  * Paramount Theater
  * Piedmont Hotel
  * Ponce de Leon amusement park
  * Ponce de Leon Park (ballpark)
  * Ponce de Leon Springs
  * Republic Block
  * Rich's
  * Riverbend Apartments
  * Roxy Theatre
  * SciTrek
  * State Square
  * Terminal Station
  * Trout House
  * Turner Broadcasting tower
  * Turner Field†
  * Union Stations: 1853
  * 1871
  * 1930
  * Post Office and Customs House/City Hall (1911-1930)
  * Washington Hall

† – Centennial Olympic Stadium was rebuilt in 1997 as Turner Field. In turn,
Turner Field was rebuilt as Georgia State Stadium in 2017.  
  
|

Planned  
  
---  
  
  * Atlanta Multi-Modal Passenger Terminal
  * Atlanta Symphony Center

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Druid Hills neighborhood of Atlanta and DeKalb County, Georgia  
  
---  
Architects |

  * Frederick Law Olmsted
  * Joel Hurt
  * John Charles Olmsted
  * Olmsted Brothers

  
  
Historic buildings |

  * Briarcliff (mansion)
  * Callanwolde
  * Carlos H. Mason Mansion
  * Druid Hills Baptist Church (Poncey–Highland)
  * Lullwater House
  * Rainbow Terrace

  
  
Historic districts |

  * Druid Hills Historic District
  * Emory Grove Historic District
  * University Park–Emory Highlands–Emory Estates Historic District

  
  
Institutions |

  * Callanwolde Fine Arts Center
  * Centers for Disease Control and Prevention
  * Druid Hills Golf Club
  * Druid Hills High School
  * Emory University
  * Emory University Hospital
  * Fernbank Forest
  * Fernbank Museum of Natural History
  * Fernbank Science Center
  * Georgia Mental Health Institute
  * The Paideia School

  
  
People |

  * Ron Blomberg
  * Asa Griggs Candler
  * Asa G. Candler Jr.
  * Jimmy Carnes
  * Enrico Leide
  * Carlos H. Mason
  * Louie De Votie Newton
  * Lucy Beall Candler Owens Heinz Leide

  
  
Transportation |

  * Atlanta freeway revolts
  * Clifton Corridor
  * Freedom Parkway
  * Moreland Avenue
  * PATH trails
  * Ponce de Leon Avenue
  * Stone Mountain Freeway

  
  
Other |

  * _Driving Miss Daisy_ (film)
  * Emory Point mixed-use development

  
  
  * **Inman Park**
  * **Morningside–Lenox Park**
  * **Old Fourth Ward**
  * **Poncey–Highland**
  * **Virginia–Highland**
  * **All neighborhoods of Atlanta**

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Emory_University&oldid=815094918"

Categories:

  * Emory University
  * Educational institutions established in 1836
  * Universities and colleges accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
  * Universities and colleges in DeKalb County, Georgia
  * Druid Hills, Georgia
  * 1836 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from October 2017
  * Use mdy dates from November 2015
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * Български
  * Català
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * مصرى
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * தமிழ்
  * Українська
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 12 December 2017, at 19:03.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 7 ranking. Duke is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

