

# Entertainment technology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

This article **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(February 2011)_ _(Learn how and when
to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
**Entertainment technology** is the discipline of using manufactured or
created components to enhance or make possible any sort of entertainment
experience. Because entertainment categories are so broad, and because
entertainment models the world in many ways, the types of implemented
technology are derived from a variety of sources. Thus, in theatre, for
example, entertainment technology practitioners must be able to design and
construct scenery, install electrical systems, build clothing, use motors if
there is scenery automation, provide plumbing (if functioning kitchen fixtures
are required, or if "singing in the rain"), etc. In this way, the
entertainment technology field intersects with most other types of technology.

Traditionally, entertainment technology is derived from theatrical stagecraft,
and stagecraft is an important subset of the discipline. However, the rise of
new types and venues for entertainment, as well as rapidly advancing
technological development, has increased the range and scope of its practice.

Entertainment Technology includes:

  * Scenery fabrication[ _disambiguation needed_ ]
  * Properties
  * Costume
  * Lighting
  * Sound
  * Video
  * Show control
  * Automation
  * Animatronics
  * Interactive environments
  * Computer simulation

In animation and game design the phrase **entertainment technology** refers to
a very real world of entertainment experiences made possible by the advent of
primarily computer-mediated digital technologies.

##  Education[edit]

> Traditionally, people interested in careers in this field either presented
themselves as apprentices within craft unions, or attended college programs in
theatre technology. Although both are appropriate in limited ways, the growing
world of entertainment technology encompasses many different types of
performance and display environments than the theatre. To this end, newer
opportunities have arisen that provide a wider educational base than these
more traditional environments. A seminal article "Rethinking Entertainment
Technology Education" by John Huntington describes new teaching philosophies
that resonate with the need for a richer and more flexible educational
environment.

> "We need to bridge the worlds of ivory-tower theatre education

>

> with the commercial world of live entertainment production. I believe this
bridge would be beneficial not just to the technical students, but to the
whole art of performance. When high-tech systems such as video, moving lights,
computerized sound, mechanized scenery and show control are mastered by even
average entertainment technicians, they can advance the state of their craft,
which will allow artists to advance the state of

>

> their art."[1]

Schools that offer programs or degrees in entertainment technology include:

  * Carnegie Mellon University \- Entertainment Technology Center [1]
  * New York City College of Technology Department of Entertainment Technology
  * University of Southern California Entertainment Technology Center
  * Tshwane University of Technology, Pretoria, South Africa [2]
  * Entertainment Technology Training in New Zealand

Currently, the only university offering a degree specifically in Entertainment
Engineering and Design (EED) is the University of Nevada, Las Vegas (UNLV).
Because UNLV's program is in its infancy, current entertainment technologists
come from a wide variety of educational backgrounds, the most prevalent of
which are theater and mechanical technology. Several other institutions of
higher education offer similar programs for entertainment related ventures.

A bachelor's degree in these areas will typically have a difference of only a
few specialized classes.

## See also[edit]

  * Game Design
  * Special Effects

## Footnotes[edit]

  1. **^** Huntington, John (2002). "Rethinking Entertainment Technology Education". Theatre Design and Technology Magazine, Vol 38 No. 4. Retrieved 2008-05-25. 

add

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Entertainment_technology&oldid=774139917"

Categories:

  * Entertainment

Hidden categories:

  * Articles needing additional references from February 2011
  * All articles needing additional references
  * All articles with links needing disambiguation
  * Articles with links needing disambiguation from November 2016

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 6 April 2017, at 14:49.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

