

# Environmental science

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

For the TV series episode, see Environmental Science (Community).

Not to be confused with Environmental studies.

Blue Marble composite images generated by NASA in 2001 (left) and 2002 (right)  
  
---  
Environment  
  
  * Human impact (on the climate)
  * Issues
  * Environmentalism
  * Environmental studies

  
  
    **Environment in**

  * Education
  * Humanities
  * Law
  * Policy
  * Science
  * Social science

  
  
  * Article index
  * Lists
  * Portal

  
  
  * Category
  * Commons

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
**Environmental science** is an interdisciplinary academic field that
integrates physical, biological and information sciences (including ecology,
biology, physics, chemistry, zoology, mineralogy, oceanology, limnology, soil
science, geology, atmospheric science, and geodesy) to the study of the
environment, and the solution of environmental problems. Environmental science
emerged from the fields of natural history and medicine during the
Enlightenment.[1] Today it provides an integrated, quantitative, and
interdisciplinary approach to the study of environmental systems.[2]

Related areas of study include environmental studies and environmental
engineering. Environmental studies incorporates more of the social sciences
for understanding human relationships, perceptions and policies towards the
environment. Environmental engineering focuses on design and technology for
improving environmental quality in every aspect.

Environmental scientists work on subjects like the understanding of earth
processes, evaluating alternative energy systems, pollution control and
mitigation, natural resource management, and the effects of global climate
change. Environmental issues almost always include an interaction of physical,
chemical, and biological processes. Environmental scientists bring a systems
approach to the analysis of environmental problems. Key elements of an
effective environmental scientist include the ability to relate space, and
time relationships as well as quantitative analysis.

Environmental science came alive as a substantive, active field of scientific
investigation in the 1960s and 1970s driven by (a) the need for a multi-
disciplinary approach to analyze complex environmental problems, (b) the
arrival of substantive environmental laws requiring specific environmental
protocols of investigation and (c) the growing public awareness of a need for
action in addressing environmental problems. Events that spurred this
development included the publication of Rachel Carson's landmark environmental
book _Silent Spring[3]_ along with major environmental issues becoming very
public, such as the 1969 Santa Barbara oil spill, and the Cuyahoga River of
Cleveland, Ohio, "catching fire" (also in 1969), and helped increase the
visibility of environmental issues and create this new field of study.

## Contents

  * 1 Terminology
  * 2 Components
    * 2.1 Atmospheric sciences
    * 2.2 Ecology
    * 2.3 Environmental chemistry
    * 2.4 Geosciences
  * 3 Regulations driving the studies
  * 4 See also
  * 5 References
  * 6 External links

## Terminology[edit]

See also: Glossary of environmental science

In common usage, "environmental science" and "ecology" are often used
interchangeably, but technically, ecology refers only to the study of
organisms and their interactions with each other and their environment.
Ecology could be considered a subset of environmental science, which also
could involve purely chemical or public health issues (for example) ecologists
would be unlikely to study. In practice, there is considerable overlap between
the work of ecologists and other environmental scientists.

The National Center for Education Statistics in the United States defines an
academic program in environmental science as follows:

> A program that focuses on the application of biological, chemical, and
physical principles to the study of the physical environment and the solution
of environmental problems, including subjects such as abating or controlling
environmental pollution and degradation; the interaction between human society
and the natural environment; and natural resources management. Includes
instruction in biology, chemistry, physics, geosciences, climatology,
statistics, and mathematical modeling.[4]

## Components[edit]

The Earth's atmosphere

### Atmospheric sciences[edit]

Main article: Atmospheric sciences

Atmospheric sciences focus on the Earth's atmosphere, with an emphasis upon
its interrelation to other systems. Atmospheric sciences can include studies
of meteorology, greenhouse gas phenomena, atmospheric dispersion modeling of
airborne contaminants,[5][6] sound propagation phenomena related to noise
pollution, and even light pollution.

Taking the example of the global warming phenomena, physicists create computer
models of atmospheric circulation and infra-red radiation transmission,
chemists examine the inventory of atmospheric chemicals and their reactions,
biologists analyze the plant and animal contributions to carbon dioxide
fluxes, and specialists such as meteorologists and oceanographers add
additional breadth in understanding the atmospheric dynamics.

Biodiversity of a coral reef. Corals adapt and modify their environment by
forming calcium carbonate skeletons. This provides growing conditions for
future generations and forms a habitat for many other species.

### Ecology[edit]

Main article: Ecology

Ecology is the study of the interactions between organisms and their
environment. Ecologists might investigate the relationship between a
population of organisms and some physical characteristic of their environment,
such as concentration of a chemical; or they might investigate the interaction
between two populations of different organisms through some symbiotic or
competitive relationship.

For example, an interdisciplinary analysis of an ecological system which is
being impacted by one or more stressors might include several related
environmental science fields. In an estuarine setting where a proposed
industrial development could impact certain species by water and air
pollution, biologists would describe the flora and fauna, chemists would
analyze the transport of water pollutants to the marsh, physicists would
calculate air pollution emissions and geologists would assist in understanding
the marsh soils and bay muds.

### Environmental chemistry[edit]

Main article: Environmental chemistry

Environmental chemistry is the study of chemical alterations in the
environment. Principal areas of study include soil contamination and water
pollution. The topics of analysis include chemical degradation in the
environment, multi-phase transport of chemicals (for example, evaporation of a
solvent containing lake to yield solvent as an air pollutant), and chemical
effects upon biota.

As an example study, consider the case of a leaking solvent tank which has
entered the habitat soil of an endangered species of amphibian. As a method to
resolve or understand the extent of soil contamination and subsurface
transport of solvent, a computer model would be implemented. Chemists would
then characterize the molecular bonding of the solvent to the specific soil
type, and biologists would study the impacts upon soil arthropods, plants, and
ultimately pond-dwelling organisms that are the food of the endangered
amphibian.

### Geosciences[edit]

Main article: Geosciences

Geosciences include environmental geology, environmental soil science,
volcanic phenomena and evolution of the Earth's crust. In some classification
systems this can also include hydrology, including oceanography.

As an example study of soils erosion, calculations would be made of surface
runoff by soil scientists. Fluvial geomorphologists would assist in examining
sediment transport in overland flow. Physicists would contribute by assessing
the changes in light transmission in the receiving waters. Biologists would
analyze subsequent impacts to aquatic flora and fauna from increases in water
turbidity.

Open-pit coal mining at Garzweiler, Germany

## Regulations driving the studies[edit]

Environmental science examines the effects of humans on nature (Glen Canyon
Dam in the U.S.)

In the U.S. the National Environmental Policy Act (NEPA) of 1969 set forth
requirements for analysis of major projects in terms of specific environmental
criteria. Numerous state laws have echoed these mandates, applying the
principles to local-scale actions. The upshot has been an explosion of
documentation and study of environmental consequences before the fact of
development actions.

One can examine the specifics of environmental science by reading examples of
Environmental Impact Statements prepared under NEPA such as: _Wastewater
treatment expansion options discharging into the San Diego/Tijuana Estuary_ ,
_Expansion of theSan Francisco International Airport_ , _Development of
theHouston, Metro Transportation system_ , _Expansion of the
metropolitanBoston MBTA transit system_ , and _Construction ofInterstate 66
through Arlington, Virginia_.

In England and Wales the Environment Agency (EA),[7] formed in 1996, is a
public body for protecting and improving the environment and enforces the
regulations listed on the communities and local government site.[8] (formerly
the office of the deputy prime minister). The agency was set up under the
Environment Act 1995 as an independent body and works closely with UK
Government to enforce the regulations.

## See also[edit]

  * Environment portal
  * Ecology portal
  * Earth science portal
  * Geography portal

  * Actinides in the environment
  * American Geophysical Union
  * Association of Environmental Professionals
  * Atmospheric dispersion modeling
  * Bachelor of Environmental Science
  * Ecological sanitation
  * Environmental movement
  * Environmental Impact Statement
  * Environmental monitoring
  * Environmental planning
  * Environmental statistics
  * Environmental informatics
  * Earth Summit
  * Freshwater environmental quality parameters
  * Geoprofessions
  * Glossary of environmental science
  * List of environmental degree-granting institutions
  * List of environmental studies topics
  * Lists of environmental topics
  * Natural landscape
  * Normative science
  * Phase I Environmental Site Assessment
  * Physical geography
  * Sustainable development

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Eddy, Matthew Daniel (2008). _The Language of Mineralogy: John Walker, Chemistry and the Edinburgh Medical School 1750-1800_. Ashgate.  
  2. **^** Environmental Science: Iowa State University. Environmental Sciences provides an integrated and interdisciplinary approach to understand and mitigate hazards arising from anthropogenic and natural activities by focusing on key areas of environmental chemistry, earth sciences, environmental engineering, atmospheric sciences, and sustainable systems. http://www.ensci.iastate.edu (Accessed 17 February 2010)
  3. **^** Carson, Rachel. _Silent Spring_ (Boston: Houghton Mifflin, 1962), Mariner Books, 2002, ISBN 0-618-24906-0
  4. **^** National Center for Education Statistics. _Classification of Instructional Programs_. United States Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences, 2000. (Accessed 29 January 2010)
  5. **^** Beychok, M.R. (2005). _Fundamentals Of Stack Gas Dispersion_ (4th ed.). author-published. ISBN 0-9644588-0-2.  
  6. **^** Turner, D.B. (1994). _Workbook of atmospheric dispersion estimates: an introduction to dispersion modeling_ (2nd ed.). CRC Press. ISBN 1-56670-023-X.  
  7. **^** http://www.environment-agency.gov.uk/ Environment Agency
  8. **^** [1] Archived 12 August 2007 at the Wayback Machine.

##  External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Environmental sciences**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Environmental Protection Agency of the United States
  * Glossary of environmental terms
  * "What is Environmental Science?"

  * v
  * t
  * e

Environmental science  
  
---  
Main fields |

  * Atmospheric sciences
  * Biogeochemistry
  * Ecology
  * Environmental chemistry
  * Geosciences
  * Hydrology
  * Limnology
  * Oceanography
  * Soil science

|  
  
Related fields |

  * Biology
  * Chemistry
    * green
  * Ecological economics
  * Environmental design
  * Environmental economics
  * Environmental engineering
  * Environmental health
    * epidemiology
  * Environmental studies
  * Environmental toxicology
  * Geodesy
  * Physics
  * Sustainability science
  * Systems ecology
  * Urban ecology

  
  
Applications |

  * Energy conservation
  * Environmental technology
  * Natural resource management
  * Pollution control
  * Recycling
  * Remediation
  * Renewable energy
  * Road ecology
  * Sewage treatment
  * Urban metabolism
  * Water purification
  * Waste management

  
  
See also |

  * Human impact on the environment
  * Sustainability

  
  
  * Environment portal
  * Category
    * scientists
  * Glossary
  * Degrees
  * Institutions
  * Journals
  * Research institutes

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Earth science  
  
---  
  
  * Atmospheric science
  * Environmental science
  * Geodesy
  * Geology
  * Geophysics
  * Glaciology
  * Hydrology
  * Meteorology
  * Oceanography
  * Physical geography
  * Soil science
  * Volcanology

  
  
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**
  * **Commons**

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Environmental_science&oldid=813393618"

Categories:

  * Earth sciences
  * Environmental science
  * Academic disciplines

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Use dmy dates from July 2013

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * অসমীয়া
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * भोजपुरी
  * Български
  * བོད་ཡིག
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Ido
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Қазақша
  * Кыргызча
  * Latgaļu
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Shqip
  * Slovenčina
  * Basa Sunda
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Winaray
  * Žemaitėška
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 3 December 2017, at 13:05.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

