

# Financial endowment

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

A **financial endowment** is a donation of money or property to a nonprofit
organization for the ongoing support of that organization. Usually the
endowment is structured so that the principal amount is kept intact, while the
investment income is available for use, or part of the principal is released
each year, which allows for their donation to have an impact over a longer
period than if it were spent all at once. An endowment may come with
stipulations regarding its usage.

The total value of an institution's investments is often referred to as the
institution's endowment and is typically organized as a public charity,
private foundation, or trust. Among the institutions that commonly manage
endowments are academic institutions (e.g., colleges, universities, and
private schools), cultural institutions (e.g., museums, libraries, and
theaters), service organizations (e.g., hospitals, retirement homes, the Red
Cross, the SPCA), and religious organizations (e.g., churches, synagogues,
mosques).

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Types
    * 2.1 Restricted endowments
  * 3 College and university endowments
    * 3.1 Endowed professorships
    * 3.2 Endowed scholarship/fellowship
  * 4 Financial operation
  * 5 Quasi-endowments
  * 6 Criticisms
    * 6.1 Hoarding money
    * 6.2 Size
    * 6.3 Socially and environmentally responsible investing
  * 7 See also
  * 8 References
  * 9 Further reading
  * 10 External links

## History[edit]

The earliest "endowed chairs" were those established by the Roman emperor and
Stoic philosopher Marcus Aurelius in Athens in AD 176\. Aurelius created one
endowed chair for each of the major schools of philosophy: Platonism,
Aristotelianism, Stoicism, and Epicureanism. Later, similar endowments were
set up in some other major cities of the Empire.[1][2]

The practice was adapted to the modern university system beginning in England
in 1502, when Lady Margaret Beaufort, Countess of Richmond and grandmother to
the future king Henry VIII, created the first endowed chairs in divinity at
the universities of Oxford (Lady Margaret Professor of Divinity) and Cambridge
(Lady Margaret's Professor of Divinity).[3] Nearly 50 years later, Henry VIII
established the Regius Professorships at both universities, this time in five
subjects: divinity, civil law, Hebrew, Greek, and physic—the last of those
corresponding to what are now known as medicine and basic sciences. Today, the
University of Glasgow has fifteen Regius Professorships.

Private individuals soon adopted the practice of endowing professorships.
Isaac Newton held the Lucasian Chair of Mathematics at Cambridge beginning in
1669, more recently held by the celebrated physicist Stephen Hawking.[4]

## Types[edit]

  * Unrestricted endowment can be used in any way the recipient chooses to carry out its mission.
  * Term endowment funds stipulate that all or part of the principal may be expended only after the expiration of a stated period of time or occurrence of a specified event, depending on donor wishes.
  * Quasi endowment funds must retain the purpose and intent as specified by the donor or source of the original funds and earnings may be expended only for the specified purpose.

### Restricted endowments[edit]

Endowment revenue can be restricted by donors to serve many purposes. Endowed
professorships or scholarships restricted to a particular subject are common;
in some places a donor could fund a trust exclusively for the support of a
pet.[5][6] Ignoring the restriction is called "invading" the endowment.[7] But
change of circumstance or financial duress like bankruptcy can preclude
carrying out the donor's intent. A court can alter the use of restricted
endowment under a doctrine called cy-près meaning to find an alternative "as
near as possible" to the donor's intent.[7] The restricted/unrestricted
distinction focuses on the use of the funds; see quasi-endowment below for a
distinction about whether principal can be spent.

## College and university endowments[edit]

See also: Lists of institutions of higher education by endowment

Academic institutions, such as colleges and universities, will frequently
control an endowment fund that finances a portion of the operating or capital
requirements of the institution. In addition to a general endowment fund, each
university may also control a number of restricted endowments that are
intended to fund specific areas within the institution. The most common
examples are endowed professorships (also known as named chairs), and endowed
scholarships or fellowships.

In the United States, the endowment is often integral to the financial health
of educational institutions. Alumni or friends of institutions sometimes
contribute capital to the endowment. The use of endowment funding is strong in
the United States and Canada but less commonly found overseas, with the
exceptions of Cambridge and Oxford universities. Endowment funds have also
been created to support secondary and elementary school districts in several
states in the United States.[8]

### Endowed professorships[edit]

An endowed professorship (or **endowed chair** ) is a position permanently
paid for with the revenue from an endowment fund specifically set up for that
purpose. Typically, the position is designated to be in a certain department.
The donor might be allowed to name the position. Endowed professorships aid
the university by providing a faculty member who does not have to be paid
entirely out of the operating budget, allowing the university to either reduce
its student-to-faculty ratio, a statistic used for college rankings and other
institutional evaluations, and/or direct money that would otherwise have been
spent on salaries toward other university needs. In addition, holding such a
professorship is considered to be an honour in the academic world, and the
university can use them to reward its best faculty or to recruit top
professors from other institutions.[9]

### Endowed scholarship/fellowship[edit]

An endowed scholarship is tuition (and possibly other cost) assistance that is
permanently paid for with the revenue of an endowment fund specifically set up
for that purpose. It can be either merit-based or need-based (which is only
awarded to those students for whom the college expense would cause their
family financial hardship) depending on university policy or donor
preferences. Some universities will facilitate donors' meeting the students
they are helping. The amount that must be donated to start an endowed
scholarship can vary greatly.

Fellowships are similar, although they are most commonly associated with
graduate students. In addition to helping with tuition, they may also include
a stipend. Fellowships with a stipend may encourage students to work on a
doctorate. Frequently, teaching or working on research is a mandatory part of
a fellowship.

## Financial operation[edit]

A financial endowment is typically overseen by a board of trustees and managed
by a trustee or team of professional managers. Typically, the financial
operation of the endowment is designed to achieve the stated objectives of the
endowment.

At universities, typically 4–6% of the endowment's assets are spent every year
to fund operations or capital spending. Any excess earnings are typically
reinvested to augment the endowment and to compensate for inflation and
recessions in future years.[10] This spending figure represents the proportion
that historically could be spent without diminishing the principal amount of
the endowment fund. However, the financial crisis of 2007–2010 had a major
impact on the entire range of endowments globally.

Most notably, large U.S.-based college and university endowments, which had
posted large, highly publicized gains in the 1990s and 2000s faced significant
losses of principal across a range of investments. The Harvard University
endowment fund, which held $37 billion on June 30, 2008, was reduced to $26
billion during the following year.[11] Yale University, the pioneer of an
approach that involved investing heavily in alternative investments such as
real estate and private equity, reported an endowment of $16 billion as of
September 2009, a 30% annualized loss that was more than predicted in December
2008.[12] At Stanford University, the endowment was reduced from about $17
billion to $12 billion as of September 2009.[13] Brown University's endowment
fell 27 percent to $2.04 billion in the fiscal year that ended June 30,
2009.[14] George Washington University lost 18% in that same fiscal year, down
to $1.08 billion.[15]

In Canada, after the financial crisis in 2008, University of Toronto reported
a loss of 31% ($545 million) of its previous year-end value in 2009. The loss
is attributed to over-investment in hedge funds.[16]

## Quasi-endowments[edit]

A quasi-endowment, or fund functioning as an endowment, are funds merely
earmarked by an organization's governing board, rather than restricted by a
donor or other outside agency, to be invested to provide income for a long but
unspecified period, and the governing board has the right to decide at any
time to expend the principal of such funds.[17] Separately from the endowment
versus quasi-endowment distinction, there's another 2-way categorization of
restricted and unrestricted, which focuses on the use of the funds. As an
example, a quasi-endowment might be restricted by the donor to supporting the
tennis team; the use is restricted to one purpose, but the governing board
could "invade principal" to support the tennis team.

## Criticisms[edit]

Officials in charge of the endowments of some universities have been
criticized for "hoarding" and reinvesting too much of the endowment's income.
Given a historical endowment performance of 10–11%[ _citation needed_ ], and a
payout rate of 5%, around half of the endowment's income is reinvested.
Roughly 3% of the reinvestment is used to keep pace with inflation, leaving an
inflation-adjusted 2% annual growth of the endowment. However, many endowments
fail to earn 10–11%.

Two arguments against inflation-adjusted endowment growth are:[18]

  * The future needs the money less than the present: Some claim that the future will be much richer materially than the present due to technological innovation and specialization. In counterpoint, Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences laureate James Tobin makes a case for intergenerational equity.
  * A constantly growing endowment shields universities from competitive forces: As the endowment's reinvestment starts becoming a larger part of its growth, the need for happy students and alumni to donate funds to the university's budget and endowment is reduced. Therefore, traditional market forces that provide incentives to run a university efficiently may be greatly reduced and at least theoretically lead to university administration not being held accountable for its actions. (However, this might also be considered a worthy goal, as it would mean the freedom of academia from financial concerns, which could cause a wider range of research topics to be available to students and faculty.)

### Hoarding money[edit]

Large endowments have been criticized for "hoarding" money.[19][20][21] Most
philanthropies are required by federal law to distribute 5% of their assets
per year,[22][23] but university endowments are not required to spend
anything.[22] Many universities with very large endowments would require less
than 5% to pay full tuition for all their students. For example, it has been
estimated that if in 2006 all the Harvard students had paid the maximum in
tuition and fees, it would have amounted to less than $300 million.[24] In
2007, if Harvard had spent 5% of its $34.6 billion endowment,[25] all Harvard
undergraduate and graduate students could have attended for free and the
university would still have had $1.3 billion left over.[20] It would require
less than 1% of the endowments of Harvard and Yale to allow all students to
attend tuition-free;[22] Stanford, MIT, Princeton and Rice would require less
than 2% of their endowments and 29 other schools would require less than 3%
for all their students to attend tuition-free.[22] Despite the decreasing
values of endowments, congressmen, including Charles Grassley, have questioned
whether the endowments are contributing enough to maintain their tax-exempt
status.[21]

### Size[edit]

Financial endowments range in size depending on the size of the institution
and the level of community support. At many leading private universities, the
total endowment might total more than a billion dollars. Harvard University
has the largest endowment in the world with $37.6 billion in assets as of June
30, 2015.[26] Each university typically has numerous endowments, each of which
are frequently restricted to funding very specific areas of the university.
The most common examples are endowed professorships (also known as named
chairs), and endowed scholarships or fellowships. For instance, Harvard's
endowment comprises 13,000 separate funds.[27]

### Socially and environmentally responsible investing[edit]

Many college and university endowments have come under fire in recent years
for practices such as investing in "land grabs" in poor countries[28] and
high-risk, high-return investment practices that led to the financial
crisis.[29]

## See also[edit]

  * Lists of institutions of higher education by endowment
    * in Canada
    * in South Africa
    * in the UK
    * in the United States
  * List of wealthiest charitable foundations
  * Endowment tax

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Frede, Dorothea (2009). "Alexander of Aphrodisias > 1.1 Date, Family, Teachers, and Influence". _Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy_. Stanford University. Retrieved  6 September 2012. 
  2. **^** Lynch, John Patrick (1972). _Aristotle's school; a study of a Greek educational institution_. University of California Press. pp. 19––207; 213–216. ISBN 9780520021945.  
  3. **^** Lady Margaret's 500‑year legacy – University of Cambridge.
  4. **^** Bruen, Robert (May 1995). "A Brief History of The Lucasian Professorship of Mathematics at Cambridge University". Robert Bruen. Archived from the original on 24 August 2012. Retrieved 6 September 2012. 
  5. **^** Ashlea Ebelling (January 13, 2010). "Caring For Fido After You're Gone". _Forbes_. Retrieved  March 5, 2015. 
  6. **^** Dhanya Ann Thoppil (February 19, 2015). "Monkey to Inherit House, Garden, Trust Fund – India Real Time". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  March 5, 2015. 
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Patrick Sullivan (June 12, 2012). "Bankrupt But Endowed – The NonProfit TimesThe NonProfit Times". _Thenonprofittimes.com_. Retrieved  March 5, 2015. 
  8. **^** Kansas incorporated its first public school district endowment association in Paola, Kansas, a small town of 5,000 people, in 1983. Today, it has approximately $2 million in endowed principal, which generates approximately $110,000 annually to distribute in scholarships to high school graduates and fund special projects in the district, which can not be afforded by the tax base. To promote the development of endowment associations across Kansas, USD 368 Endowment Association, which received a statewide award recognizing, has developed a "starter kit" to assist other Kansas school districts in the organization and establishment of new endowment associations.
  9. **^** Cornell's "Celebrating Faculty" Website Archived 2005-05-01 at the Wayback Machine.
  10. **^** _So Nicely Endowed!_ Newsweek: Kaplan College Guide
  11. **^** Harvard fund loses $11B, a September 11, 2009 article from the _Boston Herald_ Archived September 15, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  12. **^** Yale Endowment Down 30%, a September 10, 2009 article from _The Wall Street Journal_
  13. **^** Stanford University endowment loses big, a September 3, 2009 article from the _San Francisco Chronicle_
  14. **^** Brown's Endowment Investments Drop 23% in Year Archived 2009-01-22 at the Wayback Machine., a September 9, 2009 article from Bloomberg
  15. **^** GW endowment drops 18 percent Archived August 31, 2009, at the Wayback Machine., an August 27, 2009 article from _The GW Hatchet_
  16. **^** Burrows, Malcom D. (2010). "The End of Endowments?". _The Philanthropist_. **23** (1): 52–61.  
  17. **^** "Not-for-Profit Organizations". _AICPA Audit and Accounting Guide_. American Institute of Certified Public Accountants: 367. May 1, 2007.  
  18. **^** Donald Frey, "University endowment returns are underspent", _Challenge_ , Vol. 45, No. 4, pp. 109–121, July–August 2002.
  19. **^** Gregg Easterbrook (October 4, 2007). "Come clean, Marino and Aaron!". ESPN.com. Retrieved  4 September 2010. 
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gregg Easterbrook (October 2, 2008). "No more battles of the unbeaten this season". ESPN.com. Retrieved  4 September 2010. 
  21. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Goldie Blumenstyk (March 7, 2010). "Financial Affairs: Why the Endowment-Spending Debate Matters Now More Than Ever". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 2 September 2010. 
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Lynne Munson (April 2008). "Endowment Reform: Why Universities Should Share Their Vast Wealth and in the Process Make Higher Education More Affordable" (PDF). Center for College Affordability and Productivity. pp. 11–14. Retrieved 4 September 2010. 
  23. **^** Minnesota Council on Foundations. "Frequently Asked Legal Questions: 5% Payout Rule". Retrieved 2 September 2010. 
  24. **^** Bryan Murphy (September 4, 2007). "Harvard Endowment Should Mean Free Tuition". The Daily Campus. Archived from the original on March 5, 2010. Retrieved 2 September 2010. 
  25. **^** "2007 NACUBO Endowment Study" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO). 2007. Retrieved 2008-07-08. 
  26. **^** Rosenberg, John S., "Whither the Harvard Endowment?" _Harvard Magazine_ (July 28, 2016)
  27. **^** Endowment | Harvard University
  28. **^** "The Great Land Grab: Rush for World's Farmland Threatens Food Security for the Poor" (PDF). Oakland Institute. Retrieved December 7, 2011. 
  29. **^** "Educational Endowments and the Financial Crisis" (PDF). Tellus Institute. Retrieved December 7, 2011. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Newfield, Christopher (2008). _Unmaking the public university: the forty-year assault on the middle class_. Harvard University Press. p. 162\. ISBN 978-0-674-02817-3.  

## External links[edit]

  * Ford Foundation: _A Primer for Endowment Grantmakers_
  * Dada, Kamil (February 1, 2008). "Congress investigates endowment". Stanford Daily. Archived from the original on June 9, 2011. 
  * 12 SMA for Financial Endowments

  * v
  * t
  * e

Private equity and venture capital  
  
---  
Basic investment types |

  * Buyout
  * Venture
  * Mezzanine
  * Growth
  * Secondaries
  * Equity co-investment

|  
  
History |

  * History of private equity and venture capital
  * Early history of private equity
  * Private equity in the 1980s
  * Private equity in the 1990s
  * Private equity in the 2000s

  
  
Terms and concepts |

| Buyout |

  * Financial sponsor
  * Management buyout
  * Divisional buyout
  * Buy–sell agreement
  * Leveraged recapitalization
  * Dividend recapitalization

  
  
---|---  
Venture |

  * Angel investor
  * Business incubator
  * Post-money valuation
  * Pre-money valuation
  * Seed money
  * Startup company
  * Venture capital financing
  * Venture debt
  * Venture round

  
  
Structure |

  * Private equity firms and funds
  * Limited partnership
  * Limited liability company
  * Carried interest
  * Management fee
  * Publicly traded private equity
    * Business Development Company
    * Venture capital trust
  * Private investment in public equity (PIPE)
  * Pledge fund

  
  
Investors |

  * Corporations
  * Institutional investors
  * Pension funds
  * Insurance companies
  * Fund of funds
  * Endowments
  * Foundations
  * Investment banks
  * Merchant banks
  * Commercial banks
  * High-net-worth individuals
  * Family offices
  * Sovereign wealth funds
  * Crowdfunding

  
  
Related financial terms |

  * AUM
  * Cap table
  * Capital call
  * Capital commitment
  * Capital structure
  * Distribution waterfall
  * EBITDA
  * Envy ratio
  * High-yield debt
  * IPO
  * IRR
  * Leverage
  * Liquidation preference
  * M&A
  * PME
  * Taxation of private equity and hedge funds
  * Undercapitalization
  * Vintage year

  
  
  * Private equity and venture capital investors
  * Private equity firms
  * Venture capital firms
  * Angel investors
  * Portfolio companies

  
  
Authority control |

  * NDL: 00565783

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Financial_endowment&oldid=812312091"

Categories:

  * Education finance
  * Financial endowments

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2017

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * العربية
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Հայերեն
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * 日本語
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Українська
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 27 November 2017, at 05:30.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[m.]: married
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887

