

# Fine art

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from Fine arts)

Jump to: navigation, search

For the Go software, see Fine Art (software).

_Self-Portrait with Two Circles_ , oil on canvas, Rembrandt, c. 1665–1669.

_Black Square_ , oil on canvas, Kazimir Malevich, 1923–29

In European academic traditions, **fine art** is art developed primarily for
aesthetics or beauty, distinguishing it from applied art that also has to
serve some practical function, such as pottery or most metalwork.

Historically, the five main fine arts were painting, sculpture, architecture,
music, and poetry, with performing arts including theatre and dance.[1] Today,
the fine arts commonly include additional forms, such as film, photography,
video production/editing, design, sequential art, conceptual art, and
printmaking. However, in some institutes of learning or in museums, _fine art_
and frequently the term _fine arts_ (pl.) as well, are associated exclusively
with visual art forms. [ _citation needed_ ]

One definition of _fine art_ is "a visual art considered to have been created
primarily for aesthetic and intellectual purposes and judged for its beauty
and meaningfulness, specifically, painting, sculpture, drawing, watercolor,
graphics, and architecture."[2] In that sense, there are conceptual
differences between the _fine arts_ and the _applied arts_. As originally
conceived, and as understood for much of the modern era, the perception of
aesthetic qualities required a refined judgment usually referred to as having
good taste, which differentiated fine art from popular art and
entertainment.[3]

The word "fine" does not so much denote the quality of the artwork in
question, but the purity of the discipline according to traditional Western
European canons.[ _citation needed_ ] This definition originally excluded the
applied or decorative arts, and the products of what were regarded as crafts.
In contemporary practice these distinctions and restrictions have become
essentially meaningless, as the concept or intention of the artist is given
primacy, regardless of the means through which this is expressed.[ _citation
needed_ ]

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Cultural perspectives
  * 3 Visual arts
    * 3.1 Two-dimensional works
      * 3.1.1 Painting and drawing
      * 3.1.2 Mosaics
      * 3.1.3 Printmaking
      * 3.1.4 Calligraphy
      * 3.1.5 Photography
    * 3.2 Three-dimensional works
      * 3.2.1 Architecture
      * 3.2.2 Pottery
      * 3.2.3 Sculpture
      * 3.2.4 Conceptual art
  * 4 Performing arts
    * 4.1 Dance
    * 4.2 Theatre
    * 4.3 Film
  * 5 Other
  * 6 Academic study
    * 6.1 Africa
    * 6.2 Asia
    * 6.3 Europe
    * 6.4 South America
    * 6.5 United States
  * 7 References
  * 8 Further reading

## History[edit]

Main article: Art history  
  
---  
History of art  
  
  * Prehistoric
  * Ancient
  * European
  * Asian
  * Islamic
  * Painting (Western)

  
Art history  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
According to some writers the concept of a distinct category of fine art is an
invention of the early modern period in the West. Larry Shiner in his _The
Invention of Art: A Cultural History_ (2003) locates the invention in the 18th
century: "There was a traditional “system of the arts” in the West before the
eighteenth century. (Other traditional cultures still have a similar system.)
In that system, an artist or artisan was a skilled maker or practitioner, a
work of art was the useful product of skilled work, and the appreciation of
the arts was integrally connected with their role in the rest of life. “Art,”
in other words, meant approximately the same thing as the Greek word techne,
or in English “skill”, a sense that has survived in phrases like “the art of
war,” “the art of love,” and “the art of medicine.”[4] Similar ideas have been
expressed by Paul Oskar Kristeller, Pierre Bourdieu, and Terry Eagleton (e.g.
The Ideology of the Aesthetic), though the point of invention is often placed
earlier, in the Italian Renaissance.

##  Cultural perspectives[edit]

The separation of arts and crafts that often exists in Europe and the US is
not shared by all other cultures. In Japanese aesthetics the activities of
everyday life are depicted by integrating not only art with craft but man-made
with nature. Traditional Chinese art distinguished within Chinese painting
between the mostly landscape literati painting of scholar gentlemen and the
artisans of the schools of court painting and sculpture. A high status was
also given to many things that would be seen as craft objects in the West, in
particular ceramics, jade carving, weaving, and embroidery. Latin American art
was dominated by European colonialism until the 20th-century, when indigenous
art began to reassert itself inspired by the Constructivist Movement, which
reunited arts with crafts based upon socialist principles.

## Visual arts[edit]

### Two-dimensional works[edit]

#### Painting and drawing[edit]

Main articles: Painting and Drawing

Drawing is a form of visual expression and is one of the major forms of the
visual arts. Common instruments include graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked
brushes, wax color pencils, crayons, charcoals, chalk, pastels, markers,
stylus, or various metals like silverpoint. There are a number of
subcategories of drawing, including cartooning. Certain drawing methods or
approaches, such as "doodling" and other informal kinds of drawing such as
drawing in the fog a shower leaves on a bathroom mirror, or the surrealist
method of "entopic graphomania", in which dots are made at the sites of
impurities in a blank sheet of paper, and lines are then made between the
dots, may or may not be considered to be part of "drawing" as a "fine art."

#### Mosaics[edit]

Main article: Mosaic

Mosaic of Christ Pantocrator from Hagia Sophia

Mosaics are images formed with small pieces of stone or glass, called
_tesserae_. They can be decorative or functional. An artist who designs and
makes mosaics is called a mosaic artist or a mosaicist.

####  Printmaking[edit]

Main article: Printmaking

_Melencolia I_ , 1514, Dürer

Printmaking is the process of making artworks by printing, normally on paper.
Except in the case of monotyping, the process is capable of producing
multiples of the same piece, which is called a print. Each print is considered
an original, as opposed to a copy. The reasoning behind this is that the print
is not a reproduction of another work of art in a different medium — for
instance, a painting — but rather an image designed from inception as a print.
An individual print is also referred to as an impression. Prints are created
from a single original surface, known technically as a matrix. Common types of
matrices include: plates of metal, usually copper or zinc for engraving or
etching; stone, used for lithography; blocks of wood for woodcuts, linoleum
for linocuts and fabric in the case of screen-printing. But there are many
other kinds, discussed below. Multiple nearly identical prints can be called
an edition. In modern times each print is often signed and numbered forming a
"limited edition." Prints may also be published in book form, as artist's
books. A single print could be the product of one or multiple techniques.

#### Calligraphy[edit]

Main article: Calligraphy

_Folio from a Koran_ (8–9th century), Abbasid Kufic Calligraphy

Calligraphy is a type of visual art. It is often called the art of fancy
lettering [5] A contemporary definition of calligraphic practice is "the art
of giving form to signs in an expressive, harmonious and skillful manner".[5]
Modern calligraphy ranges from functional hand-lettered inscriptions and
designs to fine-art pieces where the abstract expression of the handwritten
mark may or may not compromise the legibility of the letters.[5] Classical
calligraphy differs from typography and non-classical hand-lettering, though a
calligrapher may create all of these; characters are historically disciplined
yet fluid and spontaneous, improvised at the moment of writing [6][7][8]

#### Photography[edit]

Main article: Fine-art photography

Ansel Adams' _The Tetons and the Snake River_ , 1942

_Fine art photography_ refers to photographs that are created to fulfill the
creative vision of the artist. Fine art photography stands in contrast to
photojournalism and commercial photography. Photojournalism visually
communicates stories and ideas, mainly in print and digital media. Fine art
photography is created primarily as an expression of the artist’s vision, but
has also been important in advancing certain causes. The work of Ansel Adams
in Yosemite and Yellowstone provides an example. Adams is one of the most
widely recognized fine art photographers of the 20th century and was an avid
promoter of conservation. While his primary focus was on photography as art,
his work raised public awareness of the beauty of the Sierra Nevada and helped
to build political support for their protection.

###  Three-dimensional works[edit]

#### Architecture[edit]

Main article: Architecture

The Pantheon

Architecture is frequently considered a fine art, especially if its aesthetic
components are spotlighted — in contrast to structural-engineering or
construction-management components. Architectural works are perceived as
cultural and political symbols and works of art. Historical civilizations
often are known primarily through their architectural achievements. Such
buildings as the pyramids of Egypt and the Roman Colosseum are cultural
symbols, and are important links in public consciousness, even when scholars
have discovered much about past civilizations through other means. Cities,
regions and cultures continue to identify themselves with, and are known by,
their architectural monuments.[9]

#### Pottery[edit]

One field where "fine" remains a valid technical term is pottery, especially
in archaeology. "Fine wares" are high-quality pottery, often painted, moulded
or otherwise decorated, and in many periods distinguished from "coarse" wares,
which are basic utilitarian pots used by the mass of the population, or in the
kitchen rather than for more formal purposes.

#### Sculpture[edit]

Main article: Sculpture

Head Ife Terracotta, Nigeria, 12th–14th century

Sculpture is three-dimensional artwork created by shaping hard or plastic
material, commonly stone (either rock or marble), metal, or wood. Some
sculptures are created directly by carving; others are assembled, built up and
fired, welded, molded, or cast. Because sculpture involves the use of
materials that can be moulded or modulated, it is considered one of the
plastic arts. The majority of public art is sculpture. Many sculptures
together in a garden setting may be referred to as a sculpture garden.

#### Conceptual art[edit]

Main article: Conceptual art

_An Oak Tree_ by Michael Craig-Martin, 1973

Conceptual art is art in which the concept(s) or idea(s) involved in the work
take precedence over traditional aesthetic and material concerns. The
inception of the term in the 1960s referred to a strict and focused practice
of _idea-based art_ that often defied traditional visual criteria associated
with the visual arts in its presentation as text. However, through its
association with the Young British Artists and the Turner Prize during the
1990s, its popular usage, particularly in the UK, developed as a synonym for
all contemporary art that does not practice the traditional skills of painting
and sculpture.[10]

##  Performing arts[edit]

### Dance[edit]

Main article: Dance

Dance from Don Quixote

_Dance_ is an art form that generally refers to movement of the body, usually
rhythmic, and to music,[11] used as a form of expression, social interaction
or presented in a spiritual or performance setting. Dance is also used to
describe methods of nonverbal communication (see body language) between humans
or animals (bee dance, patterns of behaviour such as a mating dance), motion
in inanimate objects _(the leaves danced in the wind)_ , and certain musical
genres. In sports, gymnastics, figure skating and synchronized swimming are
_dance disciplines_ while the _Katas_ of the martial arts are often compared
to dances.

###  Theatre[edit]

Main article: Theatre

The Royal Opera House, London

Modern Western theatre is dominated by realism, including drama and comedy.
Another popular Western form is musical theatre. Classical forms of theatre,
including Greek and Roman drama, classic English drama (Shakespeare and
Marlowe included), and French theater (Molière included), are still performed
today. In addition, performances of classic Eastern forms such as Noh and
Kabuki can be found in the West, although with less frequency.

### Film[edit]

Main articles: Film and Art film

_Fine arts film_ is a term that encompasses motion pictures and the field of
film as a fine art form. A _fine arts movie theater_ is a venue, usually a
building, for viewing such movies. Films are produced by recording images from
the world with cameras, or by creating images using animation techniques or
special effects. Films are cultural artifacts created by specific cultures,
which reflect those cultures, and, in turn, affect them. Film is considered to
be an important art form, a source of popular entertainment and a powerful
method for educating — or indoctrinating — citizens. The visual elements of
cinema give motion pictures a universal power of communication. Some films
have become popular worldwide attractions by using dubbing or subtitles that
translate the dialogue.

Cinematography is the discipline of making lighting and camera choices when
recording photographic images for the cinema. It is closely related to the art
of still photography, though many additional issues arise when both the camera
and elements of the scene may be in motion.

Independent filmmaking often takes place outside of Hollywood, or other major
studio systems. An independent film (or _indie film)_ is a film initially
produced without financing or distribution from a major movie studio.
Creative, business, and technological reasons have all contributed to the
growth of the indie film scene in the late 20th and early 21st century.

##  Other[edit]

|

This section **does notcite any sources**.  Please help improve this section
by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged
and removed. _(June 2014)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
  * Avant-garde music is frequently considered both a performing art and a fine art.
  * Electronic Media —perhaps the newest medium for fine art, since it utilizes modern technologies such as computers from production to presentation. Includes, amongst others, video, digital photography, digital printmaking and interactive pieces.
  * Textiles, including quilt art and "wearable" or "pre-wearable" creations, frequently reach the category of fine art objects, sometimes like part of an art display.
  * Western art (or Classical) music is a performing art frequently considered to be fine art.

##  Academic study[edit]

See also: List of art schools

|

This article's **use ofexternal links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or
guidelines**.  Please improve this article by removing excessive or
inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate
into footnote references. _(June 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this
template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
###  Africa[edit]

  * Fine Art Schools, Colleges and Universities in Africa
  * South Africa

### Asia[edit]

  * Kyoto City University of Arts, Japan Offers graduate degrees in Painting, Printmaking, Concept and Media Planning, Sculpture, and Design (Visual, Environmental, and Product), Crafts (Ceramics, Dying and Weaving, and Urushi Lacquering); also the Science of Art and Conservation.
  * Tokyo University of the Arts The art school offers graduate degrees in Painting (Japanese and Oil), Sculpture, Crafts, Design, Architecture, Intermedia Art, Aesthetics and Art History. The music and film schools are separate.
  * Korean National University Music, Drama, Dance, Film, Traditional Arts (Korean Music, Dance and Performing Arts), Design, Architecture, Art Theory, Visual Arts Dept. of Fine Arts (painting, sculpture, photography, 3D laser holography, Video, interactivity, pottery and glass)
  * The Guangzhou Academy of Fine Arts is a Chinese national university based in Guangzhou which provides Fine Arts and Design Doctoral, Master and bachelor's degrees .
  * Academy of Fine Arts, Kolkata is a Fine Art college in the Indian city of Kolkata, West Bengal.

### Europe[edit]

Main article: List of art universities and colleges in Europe

### South America[edit]

  * Brazil: The Institute for the Arts in Brazilia has departments for theater, visual arts, industrial design, and music.[12]

### United States[edit]

In the United States an academic course of study in fine art may include the
Bachelor of Arts in Fine Art, or a Bachelor of Fine Arts, and/or a Master of
Fine Arts degree — traditionally the terminal degree in the field. Doctor of
Fine Arts degrees —earned, as opposed to honorary degrees— have begun to
emerge at some US academic institutions, however. Major schools of art in the
US:

  * Yale University, New Haven, CT - MFA in Painting, printmaking, sculpture, photography, and graphic design. An interdisciplinary degree in film is also offered. The BA in art includes the same areas of study, plus drawing.[13]
  * Rhode Island School of Design, Providence, RI - MFA in Ceramics, Glass, Jewelry + Metalsmithing, Painting, Photography, Printmaking, Sculpture, Textiles; BFA in Film/Animation/Video, Illustration[14]
  * School of the Art Institute of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois - MFA in Studio, MFA in Writing[15]
  * University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA - MFA in Ceramics, Interdisciplinary Studio, New Genres, Painting and Drawing, Photography, and Sculpture[16]
  * California Institute of the Arts, Valencia, CA[17]
  * Carnegie Mellon University, Pittsburgh, PA[18]
  * Cranbrook Academy of Art, Bloomfield Hills, MI[19]
  * Maryland Institute College of Art, Baltimore, MD[20]
  * Fordham University, New York, NY - An innovative partnership between Alvin Ailey American Dance Theater and Fordham University, the Ailey/Fordham Bachelor of Fine Arts (B.F.A) degree combines the finest in dance and liberal arts education in a 4-year program. Students complete a diverse curriculum while attending both institutions full-time.[21]
  * Columbia University, New York, NY - The School of the Arts at Columbia University offers MFA degrees in Film, Theatre Arts, Visual Arts and Writing, an MA degree in Film Studies, a joint JD/MFA degree in Theatre Management & Producing, and a PhD degree in Theatre History, Literature and Theory.[22]
  * Juilliard School, New York, NY - is a performing arts conservatory established in 1905 it educates and trains undergraduate and graduate students in dance, drama, and music. It is widely regarded as one of the world's leading music schools, with some of the most prestigious arts programs.[23][24][25]

## References[edit]

  1. **^** _The Project Gutenberg EBook of Encyclopædia Britannica_. **10** (11 ed.). 1911.  
  2. **^** "Fine art | Define Fine art at Dictionary.com". Dictionary.reference.com. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  3. **^** "Aesthetic Judgment". The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy. 22 July 2010.  
  4. **^** Clowney, David. "A Third System of the Arts? An Exploration of Some Ideas from Larry Shiner's _The Invention of Art: A Cultural History_ ". _Contemporary Aesthetics_. Retrieved  May 7, 2013. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Mediavilla, C. (1996). _Calligraphy_. Scirpus Publications.  
  6. **^** Pott, G. (2006). _Kalligrafie: Intensiv Training_. Verlag Hermann Schmidt Mainz.  
  7. **^** Pott, G. (2005). _Kalligrafie:Erste Hilfe und Schrift-Training mit Muster-Alphabeten_. Verlag Hermann Schmidt Mainz.  
  8. **^** *Zapf, H. (2007). _Alphabet Stories: A Chronicle of Technical Developments_. Rochester: Cary Graphic Arts Press.  
  9. **^** The Tower Bridge, the Eiffel Tower and the Colosseum are representative of the buildings used on advertising brochures.
  10. **^** _Conceptual art_ Tate online glossary tate.org.uk. Retrieved August 7, 2014.
  11. **^** Britannica Concise Encyclopedia. "britannica". britannica. Retrieved 2010-05-18. 
  12. **^** "Institute for the Arts, Brazilia".  
  13. **^** "Yale University School of Art". Art.yale.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  14. **^** "Division of Fine Arts RISD". Risd.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  15. **^** "School of the Art Institute of Chicago". Saic.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  16. **^** "UCLA Department of Art". Art.ucla.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  17. **^** "California Institute of the Arts Programs". Calarts.edu. 2013-12-20. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  18. **^** "Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts". .cfa.cmu.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  19. **^** "Welcome to Cranbrook Academy of Art". Cranbrookart.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  20. **^** "Maryland Institute College of Art". Mica.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  21. **^** "B.F.A. Program". _The Ailey School_.  
  22. **^** "Columbia University School of the Arts". Arts.columbia.edu. Retrieved  2014-03-13. 
  23. **^** "Still 'best reputation' for Juilliard at 100". _The Washington Times_. Retrieved  September 15, 2013. 
  24. **^** Frank Rich (2003). _Juilliard_. Harry N. Abrams. p.  10\. ISBN 0810935368. Juilliard grew up with both the country and its burgeoning cultural capital of New York to become an internationally recognized synonym for the pinnacle of artistic achievement. 
  25. **^** "The Top 25 Drama Schools in the World". _The Hollywood Reporter_. Retrieved  September 15, 2013. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Ballard, A. (1898). Arrows; or, Teaching a fine art. New York: A.S. Barnes & Company.
  * Caffin, Charles Henry. (1901). Photography as a fine art; the achievements and possibilities of photographic art in America. New York: Doubleday, Page & Co.
  * Crane, L., and Whiting, C. G. (1885). Art and the formation of taste: six lectures. Boston: Chautauqua Press. Chapter 4 : Fine Arts
  * Hegel, G. W. F., and Bosanquet, B. (1905). The introduction to Hegel's Philosophy of fine art. London: K. Paul, Trench &.
  * Hegel, G. W. F. (1998). Aesthetics: lectures on fine art. Oxford: Clarendon Press.
  * Neville, H. (1875). The stage: its past and present in relation to fine art. London: R. Bentley and Son.
  * Rossetti, W. M. (1867). Fine art, chiefly contemporary: notices re-printed, with revisions. London: Macmillan.
  * Shiner, Larry. (2003). "The Invention of Art: A Cultural History". Chicago: University of Chicago Press. ISBN 978-0-226-75342-3
  * Torrey, J. (1874). A theory of fine art. New York: Scribner, Armstrong, and Co.

  * v
  * t
  * e

Visual arts and the art world  
  
---  
Artwork |

  * Conceptual art
  * Cultural artifact
  * Fine art
  * Plastic arts
  * Public art

  
  
Roles |

  * Critic
  * Curator
  * Conservator-restorer
  * Dealer

  
  
  * Places
  * Events

|

  * Art auction
  * Art exhibition
  * Art gallery / museum (contemporary)
  * Arts centre
  * Arts festival
  * Artist cooperative
  * Artist-in-residence program
  * Artist-run initiative
  * Artist-run space
  * Biennale
  * Commission
  * Virtual museum
  * Alternative exhibition space

  
  
History of art |

  * Art history (academic study)
  * Criticism

  
  
Related topics |

  * The arts
  * Economics of art / arts and literature / culture
  * Conservation-restoration
  * Cultural policy
  * Sociology of art

  
  
Lists |

  * Artistic media
  * Contemporary artists
  * Painters (name, nationality)
  * Photographers
  * Sculptors

  
  
  * Arts portal
  * Visual arts portal

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Fine_art&oldid=816294134"

Categories:

  * Aesthetics
  * Arts

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2013
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2012
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2014
  * Articles needing additional references from June 2014
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Wikipedia external links cleanup from June 2017
  * Wikipedia spam cleanup from June 2017

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * বাংলা
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Frysk
  * Gaeilge
  * Gaelg
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * हिन्दी
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Kreyòl ayisyen
  * Latina
  * മലയാളം
  * Монгол
  * Nederlands
  * नेपाली
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Occitan
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * پښتو
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Sardu
  * සිංහල
  * کوردی
  * Svenska
  * தமிழ்
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 20 December 2017, at 13:08.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

