

# Freedom of speech

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

This article is about freedom of speech in general. For freedom of speech in
specific jurisdictions, see freedom of speech by country. For free speech
restrictions on Wikipedia, see WP:Free speech. For other uses, see Freedom of
speech (disambiguation).

"Freedom of expression" redirects here. For other uses, see Freedom of
expression (disambiguation).

Eleanor Roosevelt and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1949)—Article
19 states that "Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression;
this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek,
receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of
frontiers"[1]

Orator at Speakers' Corner in London, 1974

**Freedom of speech** is a principle that supports the freedom of an
individual or community to articulate one's opinions and ideas without fear of
retaliation, censorship, or sanction.[2][3][4][5] The term "freedom of
expression" is sometimes used synonymously, but includes any act of seeking,
receiving and imparting information or ideas, regardless of the medium used.

Freedom of expression is recognized as a human right under article 19 of the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights and recognized in international human
rights law in the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights
(ICCPR). Article 19 of the UDHR states that "everyone shall have the right to
hold opinions without interference" and "everyone shall have the right to
freedom of expression; this right shall include freedom to seek, receive and
impart information and ideas of all kinds, regardless of frontiers, either
orally, in writing or in print, in the form of art, or through any other media
of his choice". The version of Article 19 in the ICCPR later amends this by
stating that the exercise of these rights carries "special duties and
responsibilities" and may "therefore be subject to certain restrictions" when
necessary "[f]or respect of the rights or reputation of others" or "[f]or the
protection of national security or of public order (order public), or of
public health or morals".[6]

Freedom of speech and expression, therefore, may not be recognized as being
absolute, and common limitations to freedom of speech relate to libel,
slander, obscenity, pornography, sedition, incitement, fighting words,
classified information, copyright violation, trade secrets, food labeling,
non-disclosure agreements, the right to privacy, the right to be forgotten,
public security, and perjury. Justifications for such include the harm
principle, proposed by John Stuart Mill in _On Liberty_ , which suggests that:
"the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member
of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others."[7]
The idea of the "offense principle" is also used in the justification of
speech limitations, describing the restriction on forms of expression deemed
offensive to society, considering factors such as extent, duration, motives of
the speaker, and ease with which it could be avoided.[7] With the evolution of
the digital age, application of the freedom of speech becomes more
controversial as new means of communication and restrictions arise, for
example the Golden Shield Project, an initiative by Chinese government's
Ministry of Public Security that filters potentially unfavorable data from
foreign countries.

The right to freedom of expression has been interpreted to include the right
to take and publish photographs of strangers in public areas without their
permission or knowledge.[8][9]

## Contents

  * 1 Origins of freedom of speech and expression
    * 1.1 Relationship to other rights
  * 2 Democracy and social interaction
  * 3 Limitations
  * 4 The Internet and information society
    * 4.1 Freedom of information
    * 4.2 Internet censorship
  * 5 History of dissent and truth
  * 6 See also
  * 7 References
  * 8 Further reading
  * 9 External links

## Origins of freedom of speech and expression[edit]

Freedom of speech and expression has a long history that predates modern
international human rights instruments.[10] It is thought that ancient Athens'
democratic ideology of free speech may have emerged in the late 6th or early
5th century BC.[11] The values of the Roman Republic included freedom of
speech and freedom of religion.[12]

Concepts of freedom of speech can be found in early human rights
documents.[10] England's Bill of Rights 1689 legally established the
constitutional right of 'freedom of speech in Parliament' which is still in
effect.[13] The Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen, adopted
during the French Revolution in 1789, specifically affirmed freedom of speech
as an inalienable right.[10] The Declaration provides for freedom of
expression in Article 11, which states that:

> The free communication of ideas and opinions is one of the most precious of
the rights of man. Every citizen may, accordingly, speak, write, and print
with freedom, but shall be responsible for such abuses of this freedom as
shall be defined by law.[14]

Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, adopted in 1948,
states that:

> Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right
includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive
and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of
frontiers.[15]

Today, freedom of speech, or the freedom of expression, is recognized in
international and regional human rights law. The right is enshrined in Article
19 of the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights, Article 10 of
the European Convention on Human Rights, Article 13 of the American Convention
on Human Rights and Article 9 of the African Charter on Human and Peoples'
Rights.[16] Based on John Milton's arguments, freedom of speech is understood
as a multi-faceted right that includes not only the right to express, or
disseminate, information and ideas, but three further distinct aspects:

  1. the right to seek information and ideas;
  2. the right to receive information and ideas;
  3. the right to impart information and ideas

International, regional and national standards also recognize that freedom of
speech, as the freedom of expression, includes any medium, be it orally, in
written, in print, through the Internet or through art forms. This means that
the protection of freedom of speech as a right includes not only the content,
but also the means of expression.[16]

### Relationship to other rights[edit]

The right to freedom of speech and expression is closely related to other
rights, and may be limited when conflicting with other rights (see limitations
on freedom of speech).[16] The right to freedom of expression is also related
to the right to a fair trial and court proceeding which may limit access to
the search for information, or determine the opportunity and means in which
freedom of expression is manifested within court proceedings.[17] As a general
principle freedom of expression may not limit the right to privacy, as well as
the honor and reputation of others. However greater latitude is given when
criticism of public figures is involved.[17]

The right to freedom of expression is particularly important for media, which
plays a special role as the bearer of the general right to freedom of
expression for all.[16] However, freedom of the press is not necessarily
enabling freedom of speech. Judith Lichtenberg has outlined conditions in
which freedom of the press may constrain freedom of speech, for example where
the media suppresses information or stifles the diversity of voices inherent
in freedom of speech. Lichtenberg argues that freedom of the press is simply a
form of property right summed up by the principle "no money, no voice".[18]

## Democracy and social interaction[edit]

Permanent Free Speech Wall in Charlottesville, Virginia, U.S.

Freedom of speech is understood to be fundamental in a democracy. The norms on
limiting freedom of expression mean that public debate may not be completely
suppressed even in times of emergency.[17] One of the most notable proponents
of the link between freedom of speech and democracy is Alexander Meiklejohn.
He argues that the concept of democracy is that of self-government by the
people. For such a system to work an informed electorate is necessary. In
order to be appropriately knowledgeable, there must be no constraints on the
free flow of information and ideas. According to Meiklejohn, democracy will
not be true to its essential ideal if those in power are able to manipulate
the electorate by withholding information and stifling criticism. Meiklejohn
acknowledges that the desire to manipulate opinion can stem from the motive of
seeking to benefit society. However, he argues, choosing manipulation negates,
in its means, the democratic ideal.[19]

Eric Barendt has called this defense of free speech on the grounds of
democracy "probably the most attractive and certainly the most fashionable
free speech theory in modern Western democracies".[20] Thomas I. Emerson
expanded on this defense when he argued that freedom of speech helps to
provide a balance between stability and change. Freedom of speech acts as a
"safety valve" to let off steam when people might otherwise be bent on
revolution. He argues that "The principle of open discussion is a method of
achieving a more adaptable and at the same time more stable community, of
maintaining the precarious balance between healthy cleavage and necessary
consensus." Emerson furthermore maintains that "Opposition serves a vital
social function in offsetting or ameliorating (the) normal process of
bureaucratic decay."[21]

Research undertaken by the Worldwide Governance Indicators project at the
World Bank, indicates that freedom of speech, and the process of
accountability that follows it, have a significant impact in the quality of
governance of a country. "Voice and Accountability" within a country, defined
as "the extent to which a country's citizens are able to participate in
selecting their government, as well as freedom of expression, freedom of
association, and free media" is one of the six dimensions of governance that
the Worldwide Governance Indicators measure for more than 200 countries.[22]
Against this backdrop it is important that development agencies create grounds
for effective support for a free press in developing countries.[23]

Richard Moon has developed the argument that the value of freedom of speech
and freedom of expression lies with social interactions. Moon writes that "by
communicating an individual forms relationships and associations with others –
family, friends, co-workers, church congregation, and countrymen. By entering
into discussion with others an individual participates in the development of
knowledge and in the direction of the community."[24]

## Limitations[edit]

For specific country examples, see freedom of speech by country and criminal
speech.

Members of Westboro Baptist Church (pictured in 2006) have been specifically
banned from entering Canada for hate speech.[25]

Legal systems sometimes recognize certain limits on the freedom of speech,
particularly when freedom of speech conflicts with other rights and freedoms,
such as in the cases of libel, slander, pornography, obscenity, fighting
words, and intellectual property. Justifications for limitations to freedom of
speech often reference the "harm principle" or the "offense principle".
Limitations to freedom of speech may occur through legal sanction or social
disapprobation, or both.[26] Certain public institutions may also enact
policies restricting the freedom of speech, for example speech codes at state
schools.

In _On Liberty_ (1859), John Stuart Mill argued that "...there ought to exist
the fullest liberty of professing and discussing, as a matter of ethical
conviction, any doctrine, however immoral it may be considered."[26] Mill
argues that the fullest liberty of expression is required to push arguments to
their logical limits, rather than the limits of social embarrassment. However,
Mill also introduced what is known as the harm principle, in placing the
following limitation on free expression: "the only purpose for which power can
be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his
will, is to prevent harm to others."[26]

In 1985, Joel Feinberg introduced what is known as the "offense principle",
arguing that Mill's harm principle does not provide sufficient protection
against the wrongful behaviors of others. Feinberg wrote "It is always a good
reason in support of a proposed criminal prohibition that it would probably be
an effective way of preventing serious offense (as opposed to injury or harm)
to persons other than the actor, and that it is probably a necessary means to
that end."[27] Hence Feinberg argues that the harm principle sets the bar too
high and that some forms of expression can be legitimately prohibited by law
because they are very offensive. But, as offending someone is less serious
than harming someone, the penalties imposed should be higher for causing
harm.[27] In contrast, Mill does not support legal penalties unless they are
based on the harm principle.[26] Because the degree to which people may take
offense varies, or may be the result of unjustified prejudice, Feinberg
suggests that a number of factors need to be taken into account when applying
the offense principle, including: the extent, duration and social value of the
speech, the ease with which it can be avoided, the motives of the speaker, the
number of people offended, the intensity of the offense, and the general
interest of the community at large.[26]

Along similar lines as Mill, Jasper Doomen has argued that harm should be
defined from the point of view of the individual citizen, not limiting harm to
physical harm since nonphysical harm may also be involved; Feinberg's
distinction between harm and offense is criticized as largely trivial.[28]

In 1999, Bernard Harcourt wrote of the collapse of the harm principle: "Today
the debate is characterized by a cacophony of competing harm arguments without
any way to resolve them. There is no longer an argument within the structure
of the debate to resolve the competing claims of harm. The original harm
principle was never equipped determine the relative importance of harms."[29]

Interpretations of both the harm and offense limitations to freedom of speech
are culturally and politically relative. For instance, in Russia, the harm and
offense principles have been used to justify the Russian LGBT propaganda law
restricting speech (and action) in relation to LGBT issues. A number of
European countries that take pride in freedom of speech nevertheless outlaw
speech that might be interpreted as Holocaust denial. These include Austria,
Belgium, Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Israel, Liechtenstein,
Lithuania, Luxembourg, Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Slovakia, and
Switzerland.[30]

Kurt Westergaard, a Danish cartoonist, created the controversial cartoon of
the Islamic prophet Muhammad wearing a bomb in his turban and was met with
strong violent reactions worldwide.[31]

Norman Finkelstein, a writer and professor of political science expressed the
opinion that _Charlie Hebdo'_ s abrasive cartoons of Muhammad exceeded the
boundaries of free speech, and compared those cartoons with the cartoons of
Julius Streicher,[32] who was hanged by the Allies after World War II for the
words and drawings he had published. In 2006, in response to a particularly
abrasive issue of _Charlie Hebdo_ , French President Jacques Chirac condemned
"overt provocations" which could inflame passions. "Anything that can hurt the
convictions of someone else, in particular religious convictions, should be
avoided", Chirac said.[33]

In the U.S., the standing landmark opinion on political speech is _Brandenburg
v. Ohio_ (1969),[34] expressly overruling _Whitney v. California_.[35] In
_Brandenburg_ , the US Supreme Court referred to the right even to speak
openly of violent action and revolution in broad terms:

> [Our] decisions have fashioned the principle that the constitutional
guarantees of free speech and free press do not allow a State to forbid or
proscribe advocacy of the use of force or law violation except where such
advocacy is directed to inciting or producing imminent lawless action and is
likely to incite or cause such action.[36]

The opinion in _Brandenburg_ discarded the previous test of "clear and present
danger" and made the right to freedom of (political) speech's protections in
the United States almost absolute.[37][38] Hate speech is also protected by
the First Amendment in the United States, as decided in _R.A.V. v. City of St.
Paul_ , (1992) in which the Supreme Court ruled that hate speech is
permissible, except in the case of imminent violence.[39] See the First
Amendment to the United States Constitution for more detailed information on
this decision and its historical background.

## The Internet and information society[edit]

The Free Speech Flag was created during the AACS encryption key controversy as
"a symbol to show support for personal freedoms."[40]

Jo Glanville, editor of the _Index on Censorship_ , states that "the Internet
has been a revolution for censorship as much as for free speech".[41]
International, national and regional standards recognise that freedom of
speech, as one form of freedom of expression, applies to any medium, including
the Internet.[16] The Communications Decency Act (CDA) of 1996 was the first
major attempt by the United States Congress to regulate pornographic material
on the Internet. In 1997, in the landmark cyberlaw case of _Reno v. ACLU_ ,
the US Supreme Court partially overturned the law.[42] Judge Stewart R.
Dalzell, one of the three federal judges who in June 1996 declared parts of
the CDA unconstitutional, in his opinion stated the following:[43]

> The Internet is a far more speech-enhancing medium than print, the village
green, or the mails. Because it would necessarily affect the Internet itself,
the CDA would necessarily reduce the speech available for adults on the
medium. This is a constitutionally intolerable result. Some of the dialogue on
the Internet surely tests the limits of conventional discourse. Speech on the
Internet can be unfiltered, unpolished, and unconventional, even emotionally
charged, sexually explicit, and vulgar – in a word, "indecent" in many
communities. But we should expect such speech to occur in a medium in which
citizens from all walks of life have a voice. We should also protect the
autonomy that such a medium confers to ordinary people as well as media
magnates.[...] My analysis does not deprive the Government of all means of
protecting children from the dangers of Internet communication. The Government
can continue to protect children from pornography on the Internet through
vigorous enforcement of existing laws criminalizing obscenity and child
pornography. [...] As we learned at the hearing, there is also a compelling
need for public educations about the benefits and dangers of this new medium,
and the Government can fill that role as well. In my view, our action today
should only mean that Government's permissible supervision of Internet
contents stops at the traditional line of unprotected speech. [...] The
absence of governmental regulation of Internet content has unquestionably
produced a kind of chaos, but as one of the plaintiff's experts put it with
such resonance at the hearing: "What achieved success was the very chaos that
the Internet is. The strength of the Internet is chaos." Just as the strength
of the Internet is chaos, so that strength of our liberty depends upon the
chaos and cacophony of the unfettered speech the First Amendment protects.[43]

The World Summit on the Information Society (WSIS) Declaration of Principles
adopted in 2003 makes specific reference to the importance of the right to
freedom of expression for the "Information Society" in stating:

> We reaffirm, as an essential foundation of the Information society, and as
outlined in Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, that
everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; that this right
includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive
and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of
frontiers. Communication is a fundamental social process, a basic human need
and the foundation of all social organisation. It is central to the
Information Society. Everyone, everywhere should have the opportunity to
participate and no one should be excluded from the benefits of the Information
Society offers.[44]

According to Bernt Hugenholtz and Lucie Guibault the public domain is under
pressure from the "commodification of information" as information with
previously little or no economic value has acquired independent economic value
in the information age. This includes factual data, personal data, genetic
information and pure ideas. The commodification of information is taking place
through intellectual property law, contract law, as well as broadcasting and
telecommunications law.[45]

### Freedom of information[edit]

Main article: Freedom of information

Freedom of information is an extension of freedom of speech where the medium
of expression is the Internet. Freedom of information may also refer to the
right to privacy in the context of the Internet and information technology. As
with the right to freedom of expression, the right to privacy is a recognised
human right and freedom of information acts as an extension to this right.[46]
Freedom of information may also concern censorship in an information
technology context, i.e. the ability to access Web content, without censorship
or restrictions.[47]

Freedom of information is also explicitly protected by acts such as the
Freedom of Information and Protection of Privacy Act of Ontario, in
Canada.[48]

### Internet censorship[edit]

Main articles: Internet censorship and Internet censorship by country

The concept of freedom of information has emerged in response to state
sponsored censorship, monitoring and surveillance of the internet. Internet
censorship includes the control or suppression of the publishing or accessing
of information on the Internet.[49] The Global Internet Freedom Consortium
claims to remove blocks to the "free flow of information" for what they term
"closed societies".[50] According to the Reporters without Borders (RWB)
"internet enemy list" the following states engage in pervasive internet
censorship: China, Cuba, Iran, Myanmar/Burma, North Korea, Saudi Arabia,
Syria, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan, and Vietnam.[51]

A widely publicized example of internet censorship is the "Great Firewall of
China" (in reference both to its role as a network firewall and to the ancient
Great Wall of China). The system blocks content by preventing IP addresses
from being routed through and consists of standard firewall and proxy servers
at the Internet gateways. The system also selectively engages in DNS poisoning
when particular sites are requested. The government does not appear to be
systematically examining Internet content, as this appears to be technically
impractical.[52] Internet censorship in the People's Republic of China is
conducted under a wide variety of laws and administrative regulations,
including more than sixty regulations directed at the Internet. Censorship
systems are vigorously implemented by provincial branches of state-owned ISPs,
business companies, and organizations.[53][54]

## History of dissent and truth[edit]

For more details on this topic, see Dissent.

Title page of _Index Librorum Prohibitorum_ , or _List of Prohibited Books_ ,
(Venice, 1564)

Before the invention of the printing press a written work, once created, could
only be physically multiplied by highly laborious and error-prone manual
copying. No elaborate system of censorship and control over scribes existed,
who until the 14th century were restricted to religious institutions, and
their works rarely caused wider controversy. In response to the printing
press, and the _heresies_ it allowed to spread, the Roman Catholic Church
moved to impose censorship.[55] Printing allowed for multiple exact copies of
a work, leading to a more rapid and widespread circulation of ideas and
information (see print culture).[56] The origins of copyright law in most
European countries lie in efforts by the Roman Catholic Church and governments
to regulate and control the output of printers.[56]

In _Panegyricae orationes septem_ (1596), Henric van Cuyck, a Dutch Bishop,
defended the need for censorship and argued that Johannes Gutenberg's printing
press had resulted in a world infected by "pernicious lies"—so van Cuyck
singled out the Talmud and the Qu’ran, and the writings of Martin Luther, Jean
Calvin and Erasmus of Rotterdam.[57]

In 1501 Pope Alexander VI issued a Bill against the unlicensed printing of
books and in 1559 the Index Expurgatorius, or _List of Prohibited Books_ , was
issued for the first time.[55] The Index Expurgatorius is the most famous and
long lasting example of "bad books" catalogues issued by the Roman Catholic
Church, which presumed to be in authority over private thoughts and opinions,
and suppressed views that went against its doctrines. The Index Expurgatorius
was administered by the Roman Inquisition, but enforced by local government
authorities, and went through 300 editions. Amongst others, it banned or
censored books written by René Descartes, Giordano Bruno, Galileo Galilei,
David Hume, John Locke, Daniel Defoe, Jean-Jacques Rousseau and Voltaire.[58]
While governments and church encouraged printing in many ways because it
allowed for the dissemination of Bibles and government information, works of
dissent and criticism could also circulate rapidly. As a consequence,
governments established controls over printers across Europe, requiring them
to have official licenses to trade and produce books.[56]

First page of John Milton's 1644 edition of _Areopagitica_ , in which he
argued forcefully against the Licensing Order of 1643

The notion that the expression of dissent or subversive views should be
tolerated, not censured or punished by law, developed alongside the rise of
printing and the press. _Areopagitica_ , published in 1644, was John Milton's
response to the Parliament of England's re-introduction of government
licensing of printers, hence publishers.[59] Church authorities had previously
ensured that Milton's essay on the right to divorce was refused a license for
publication. In Areopagitica, published without a license,[60] Milton made an
impassioned plea for freedom of expression and toleration of falsehood,[59]
stating:

> Give me the liberty to know, to utter, and to argue freely according to
conscience, above all liberties.[59]

This 1688 edition of Jacobus de Voragine's _Golden Legend_ (1260) was censored
according to the _Index Librorum Expurgatorum_ of 1707, which listed the
specific passages of books already in circulation that required
censorship[61][62]

Milton's defense of freedom of expression was grounded in a Protestant
worldview and he thought that the English people had the mission to work out
the truth of the Reformation, which would lead to the enlightenment of all
people. But Milton also articulated the main strands of future discussions
about freedom of expression. By defining the scope of freedom of expression
and of "harmful" speech Milton argued against the principle of pre-censorship
and in favor of tolerance for a wide range of views.[59] Freedom of the press
ceased being regulated in England in 1695 when the Licensing Order of 1643 was
allowed to expire after the introduction of the Bill of Rights 1689 shortly
after the Glorious Revolution.[63][64] The emergence of publications like the
_Tatler_ (1709) and the _Spectator_ (1711) are given credit for creating a
'bourgeois public sphere' in England that allowed for a free exchange of ideas
and information.

As the "menace" of printing spread, more governments attempted to centralize
control.[65] The French crown repressed printing and the printer Etienne Dolet
was burned at the stake in 1546. In 1557 the British Crown thought to stem the
flow of seditious and heretical books by chartering the Stationers' Company.
The right to print was limited to the members of that guild, and thirty years
later the Star Chamber was chartered to curtail the "greate enormities and
abuses" of "dyvers contentyous and disorderlye persons professinge the arte or
mystere of pryntinge or selling of books." The right to print was restricted
to two universities and to the 21 existing printers in the city of London,
which had 53 printing presses. As the British crown took control of type
founding in 1637 printers fled to the Netherlands. Confrontation with
authority made printers radical and rebellious, with 800 authors, printers and
book dealers being incarcerated in the Bastille in Paris before it was stormed
in 1789.[65]

A succession of English thinkers was at the forefront of early discussion on a
right to freedom of expression, among them John Milton (1608–74) and John
Locke (1632–1704). Locke established the individual as the unit of value and
the bearer of rights to life, liberty, property and the pursuit of happiness.
However Locke's ideas evolved primarily around the concept of the right to
seek salvation for one's soul, and was thus primarily concerned with
theological matters. Locke neither supported a universal toleration of peoples
nor freedom of speech; according to his ideas, some groups, such as atheists,
should not be allowed.[66]

George Orwell statue at the headquarters of the BBC. A defence of free speech
in an open society, the wall behind the statue is inscribed with the words "If
liberty means anything at all, it means the right to tell people what they do
not want to hear”, words from George Orwell's proposed preface to _Animal
Farm_ (1945).[67]

By the second half of the 17th century philosophers on the European continent
like Baruch Spinoza and Pierre Bayle developed ideas encompassing a more
universal aspect freedom of speech and toleration than the early English
philosophers.[66] By the 18th century the idea of freedom of speech was being
discussed by thinkers all over the Western world, especially by French
philosophes like Denis Diderot, Baron d'Holbach and Claude Adrien
Helvétius.[68] The idea began to be incorporated in political theory both in
theory as well as practice; the first state edict in history proclaiming
complete freedom of speech was the one issued December 4, 1770 in Denmark-
Norway during the regency of Johann Friedrich Struensee.[69] However Struensee
himself imposed some minor limitations to this edict in October 7, 1771, and
it was even further limited after the fall of Struensee with legislation
introduced in 1773, although censorship was not reintroduced.[70]

John Stuart Mill (1806–1873) argued that without human freedom there can be no
progress in science, law or politics, which according to Mill required free
discussion of opinion. Mill's _On Liberty_ , published in 1859 became a
classic defence of the right to freedom of expression.[59] Mill argued that
truth drives out falsity, therefore the free expression of ideas, true or
false, should not be feared. Truth is not stable or fixed, but evolves with
time. Mill argued that much of what we once considered true has turned out
false. Therefore, views should not be prohibited for their apparent falsity.
Mill also argued that free discussion is necessary to prevent the "deep
slumber of a decided opinion". Discussion would drive the onwards march of
truth and by considering false views the basis of true views could be re-
affirmed.[71] Furthermore, Mill argued that an opinion only carries intrinsic
value to the owner of that opinion, thus silencing the expression of that
opinion is an injustice to a basic human right. For Mill, the only instance in
which speech can be justifiably suppressed is in order to prevent harm from a
clear and direct threat. Neither economic or moral implications, nor the
speakers own well-being would justify suppression of speech.[72]

In Evelyn Beatrice Hall's biography of Voltaire, she coined the following
sentence to illustrate Voltaire's beliefs: "I disapprove of what you say, but
I will defend to the death your right to say it."[73] Hall's quote is
frequently cited to describe the principle of freedom of speech.[73] In the
20th Century, Noam Chomsky states that: "If you believe in freedom of speech,
you believe in freedom of speech for views you don't like. Stalin and Hitler,
for example, were dictators in favor of freedom of speech for views they liked
only. If you're in favor of freedom of speech, that means you're in favor of
freedom of speech precisely for views you despise."[74] Lee Bollinger argues
that "the free speech principle involves a special act of carving out one area
of social interaction for extraordinary self-restraint, the purpose of which
is to develop and demonstrate a social capacity to control feelings evoked by
a host of social encounters." Bollinger argues that tolerance is a desirable
value, if not essential. However, critics argue that society should be
concerned by those who directly deny or advocate, for example, genocide (see
limitations above).[75]

## See also[edit]

  * Academic freedom
  * NUS No Platform Policy
  * The Confessionals
  * Digital rights
  * Election silence
  * Forbidden number
  * Freedom of thought
  * Global Network Initiative
  * Heckler's veto
  * Je suis Charlie
  * Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy
  * Laws against Holocaust denial
  * Market for loyalties theory
  * Media transparency
  * Open court principle
  * Paradox of tolerance
  * Parrhesia
  * Photography is Not a Crime
  * Political correctness
  * Right to pornography
  * Symbolic speech

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Universal Declaration of Human Rights
  2. **^** Mill, John Stuart (1859). "Introductory". _On Liberty_ (4th ed.). London: Longman, Roberts & Green (published 1869). para. 5.  Society can and does execute its own mandates ... it practises a social tyranny more formidable than many kinds of political oppression, since, though not usually upheld by such extreme penalties, it leaves fewer means of escape, penetrating much more deeply into the details of life, and enslaving the soul itself. Protection, therefore, against the tyranny of the magistrate is not enough... 
  3. **^** Mill, John Stuart (1859). "Of the Liberty of Thought and Discussion". _On Liberty_ (4th ed.). London: Longman, Roberts & Green (published 1869). para. 19.  In respect to all persons but those whose pecuniary circumstances make them independent of the good will of other people, opinion, on this subject, is as efficacious as law; men might as well be imprisoned, as excluded from the means of earning their bread. 
  4. **^** Ten Cate, Irene M. (2010). "Speech, Truth, and Freedom: An Examination of John Stuart Mill's and Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes's Free Speech Defenses". _Yale Journal of Law & the Humanities_. **22** (1). Article 2.  [A] central argument for freedom of speech in On Liberty is that in order to maximize the benefits a society can gain ... it must permanently commit to restraining dominant groups from their natural inclination to demand conformity. 
  5. **^** Wragg, Paul (2015). "Free Speech Rights at Work: Resolving the Differences between Practice and Liberal Principle" (PDF). _Industrial Law Journal_. Oxford University Press. **44** (1): 11.  (Subscription required (help)). Comparison may be made between Mill's ‘tyrannical majority’ and the employer who dismisses an employee for expression that it dislikes on moral grounds. The protection of employer action in these circumstances evokes Mill's concern about state tolerance of coercive means to ensure conformity with orthodox moral viewpoints and so nullify unorthodox ones. 
  6. **^** "Article 19". _International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights_. Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights; adopted and opened for signature, ratification and accession by UN General Assembly resolution 2200A (XXI) of 16 December 1966, entry into force 23 March 1976. 23 March 1976. Archived from the original on 5 July 2008. Retrieved  13 March 2014. 
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ van Mill, David (1 January 2016). Zalta, Edward N., ed. _The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy_ (Fall 2016 ed.).  
  8. **^** Photography & the First Amendment
  9. **^** "Know Your Rights: What To Do If You Are Detained For Taking Photographs". _Photographer's Rights_. American Civil Liberties Union. Retrieved  29 April 2017. 
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Smith, David (5 February 2006). "Timeline: a history of free speech". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  2 May 2010. 
  11. **^** Raaflaub, Kurt; Ober, Josiah; Wallace, Robert (2007). _Origins of democracy in ancient Greece_. University of California Press. p. 65\. ISBN 0-520-24562-8.  
  12. **^** M. P. Charlesworth (March 1943). "Freedom of Speech in Republican Rome". _The Classical Review_. The Classical Association. **57** (1): 49. doi:10.1017/s0009840x00311283.  
  13. **^** Williams, E. N. (1960). _The Eighteenth-Century Constitution. 1688–1815_. Cambridge University Press. pp.  26–29. OCLC 1146699. 
  14. **^** Arthur W. Diamond Law Library at Columbia Law School (26 March 2008). "Declaration of the Rights of Man and of the Citizen". _Hrcr.org_. www.hrcr.org. Retrieved  25 June 2013. 
  15. **^** United Nations (10 September 1948). "The Universal Declaration of Human Rights". _UN.org_. www.un.org. Retrieved  25 June 2013. 
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Andrew Puddephatt, Freedom of Expression, The essentials of Human Rights, Hodder Arnold, 2005, p. 128
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Brett, Sebastian (1999). _Limits to tolerance: freedom of expression and the public debate in Chile_. Human Rights Watch. p. xxv. ISBN 978-1-56432-192-3.  
  18. **^** Sanders, Karen (2003). _Ethics & Journalism_. Sage. p. 68\. ISBN 978-0-7619-6967-9. 
  19. **^** Marlin, Randal (2002). _Propaganda and the Ethics of Persuasion_. Broadview Press. pp. 226–27. ISBN 978-1551113760.  
  20. **^** Marlin, Randal (2002). _Propaganda and the Ethics of Persuasion_. Broadview Press. p. 226\. ISBN 978-1551113760.  
  21. **^** Marlin, Randal (2002). _Propaganda and the Ethics of Persuasion_. Broadview Press. pp. 228–29. ISBN 978-1551113760.  
  22. **^** "A Decade of Measuring the Quality of Governance" (PDF). World Bank. Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 April 2008. 
  23. **^** "Freedom of expression promotes democracy" http://www.dandc.eu/en/article/alexander-matschke-promoting-free-media-task-development-policy, by Alexander Matschke in E+C/E+Z January 2015
  24. **^** Marlin, Randal (2002). _Propaganda and the Ethics of Persuasion_. Broadview Press. p. 229\. ISBN 978-1551113760.  
  25. **^** Church members enter Canada, aiming to picket bus victim's funeral, _CBC News_ , 8 August 2008.
  26. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "Freedom of Speech". _Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy_. 17 April 2008. Retrieved  29 May 2011. 
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Harcourt. "Conclusion". _The Collapse of the Harm Principle_. Retrieved  7 September 2015. 
  28. **^** Doomen 2014, pp. 111, 112.
  29. **^** Kenneth Einar Himma. "Philosophy of Law". _Internet Encyclopedia of Philosophy_. Retrieved  13 March 2014. 
  30. **^** Lechtholz-Zey, Jacqueline: Laws Banning Holocaust Denial. Genocide Prevention Now.. Retrieved September 29, 2010.
  31. **^** "Tenemos Que Librar Con Ferocidad La Lucha Por La Libertad De Expresión", "Libertad Digital Internacional", 2010
  32. **^** Caglayan, Mustafa (19 January 2015). "Norman Finkelstein: Charlie Hebdo is sadism, not satire". _www.aa.com.tr_. Anadolu Agency. Retrieved  26 January 2015. 
  33. **^** "Culte Musulman et Islam de France". CFCM TV. 22 March 2007. Retrieved  21 December 2011. 
  34. **^** _Brandenburg v. Ohio_ , 395 U.S. 444 (1969)
  35. **^** Jasper 1999, p. 32.
  36. **^** _Brandenburg_ , at 447
  37. **^** _Brandenburg_ , at 450–01
  38. **^** Lewis 2007, p. 124.
  39. **^** "ABA Division for Public Education: Students: Debating the "Mighty Constitutional Opposites": Hate Speech Debate". _www.americanbar.org_. Retrieved  12 October 2016. 
  40. **^** Marcotte, John (2007-05-01). "free speech flag". _Badmouth_. Archived from the original on 2007-05-04. Retrieved  2017-10-27. 
  41. **^** Glanville, Jo (17 November 2008). "The big business of net censorship". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  26 March 2014. 
  42. **^** Godwin, Mike (2003). _Cyber Rights: Defending Free Speech in the Digital Age_. MIT Press. pp.  349–52. ISBN 0-262-57168-4. 
  43. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rowland, Diane (2005). _Information Technology Law_. Routledge-Cavendish. pp.  463–65. ISBN 978-1859417560. 
  44. **^** Klang, Mathias; Murray, Andrew (2005). _Human Rights in the Digital Age_. Routledge. p. 1\. ISBN 978-1-904385-31-8.  
  45. **^** Guibault, Lucy; Hugenholtz, Bernt (2006). _The future of the public domain: identifying the commons in information law_. Kluwer Law International. p. 1\. ISBN 9789041124357.  
  46. **^** Protecting Free Expression Online with Freenet – Internet Computing, IEEE
  47. **^** Pauli, Darren (14 January 2008). "Industry rejects Australian gov't sanitized Internet measure". _The Industry Standard_.  
  48. **^** Martin, Robert; Adam, G. Stuart (1994). _A Sourcebook of Canadian Media Law_. McGill-Queen's Press. pp.  232–34. ISBN 0886292387. 
  49. **^** Deibert, Robert; Palfrey, John G; Rohozinski, Rafal; Zittrain, Jonathan (2008). _Access denied: the practice and policy of global Internet filtering._ MIT Press.
  50. **^** "Mission". Global Internet Freedom Consortium. Retrieved  29 July 2008. 
  51. **^** _Internet Enemies_, Reporters Without Borders, Paris, March 2011
  52. **^** Watts, Jonathan (20 February 2006). "War of the words". London: The Guardian. 
  53. **^** "II. How Censorship Works in China: A Brief Overview". Human Rights Watch. Retrieved  30 August 2006. 
  54. **^** Chinese Laws and Regulations Regarding Internet Archived 20 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine.
  55. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ de Sola Pool, Ithiel (1983). _Technologies of freedom_. Harvard University Press. p. 14\. ISBN 978-0-674-87233-2.  
  56. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ MacQueen, Hector L; Waelde, Charlotte; Laurie, Graeme T (2007). _Contemporary Intellectual Property: Law and Policy_. Oxford University Press. p. 34\. ISBN 978-0-19-926339-4.  
  57. **^** "6. Henric van Cuyck, Bishop of Roermond (1546–1609). Panegyricae orationes septem. Louvain: Philippus Zangrius, 1596". _Ecclesiastical Censorship, "Heresy and Error": The Ecclesiastical Censorship of Books, 1400–1800_. Bridwell Library. 17 December 2000. Retrieved  26 June 2011. 
  58. **^** Castillo, Anastasia (2010). _Banned Books: Censorship in Eighteenth-Century England_. GRIN Verlag. p. 12\. ISBN 978-3-640-71688-3.  
  59. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Sanders, Karen (2003). _Ethics & Journalism_. Sage. p. 66\. ISBN 978-0-7619-6967-9. 
  60. **^** "13. John Milton (1608–1674). Areopagitica; A Speech of Mr. John Milton for the Liberty of Unlicenc'd Printing, to the Parlament of England. London: [s.n.], 1644". _Early Censorship in England, "Heresy and Error": The Ecclesiastical Censorship of Books, 1400–1800_. Bridwell Library. 17 December 2000. Archived from the original on 5 September 2012. Retrieved  26 June 2011. 
  61. **^** "The index of expurgations". _"Heresy and Error": The Ecclesiastical Censorship of Books, 1400–1800_. Bridwell Library. 17 December 2000. Retrieved  26 June 2011. 
  62. **^** "52. Jacobus de Voragine (c. 1230–1298). Legenda aurea sanctorum. Madrid: Juan Garcia, 1688". _The Index of Expurgations, "Heresy and Error": The Ecclesiastical Censorship of Books, 1400–1800_. Bridwell Library. 17 December 2000. Retrieved  26 June 2011. 
  63. **^** "Leveson Inquiry: British press freedom is a model for the world, editor tells inquiry". The Telegraph. 14 October 2017.  
  64. **^** "David Blunkert warns MPs against regulating the Press". The Spectator. 14 October 2017.  
  65. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ de Sola Pool, Ithiel (1983). _Technologies of freedom_. Harvard University Press. p. 15\. ISBN 978-0-674-87233-2.  
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jonathan Israel (2002). _Radical Enlightenment_. Oxford University Press. pp.  265–67. 
  67. **^** "Orwell statue unveiled". _BBC_. 2017-11-07. Retrieved  2017-11-07. 
  68. **^** Jonathan Israel (2006). _Enlightenment Contested_. Oxford University Press. pp.  155ff, 781ff. 
  69. **^** Jonathan Israel (2010). _A Revolution of the Mind_. Princeton University Press. p.  76. 
  70. **^** H. Arnold Barton (1986). _Scandinavia in the Revolutionary Era – 1760–1815_. University of Minnesota Press. pp.  90–91. 
  71. **^** Sanders, Karen (2003). _Ethics & Journalism_. Sage. p. 67\. ISBN 978-0-7619-6967-9. 
  72. **^** Warburton, Nigel (2009). _Free Speech: A Very Short Introduction_. Oxford. pp. 24–29. ISBN 978-0-19-923235-2.  
  73. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Boller, Jr., Paul F.; George, John (1989). _They Never Said It: A Book of Fake Quotes, Misquotes, and Misleading Attributions_. New York: Oxford University Press. pp.  124–26. ISBN 0-19-505541-1. 
  74. **^** Mark Achbar and Peter Wintonick (1992). _Manufacturing Consent: Noam Chomsky and the Media_.  
  75. **^** Lee Bollinger (1988). _The Tolerant Society_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  

## Further reading[edit]

  * Curtis, Michael Kent (2000). _Free Speech, "The People's Darling Privilege": Struggles for Freedom of Expression in American History_. Duke University Press. ISBN 0822325292.  
  * Godwin, Mike (2003). _Cyber Rights: Defending Free Speech in the Digital Age_. MIT Press. ISBN 0262571684.  
  * Grossman, Wendy M. (1997). _Net.wars_. New York University Press. ISBN 0814731031.  
  * Kors, Alan Charles (2008). "Freedom of Speech". In Hamowy, Ronald. _The Encyclopedia of Libertarianism_. Thousand Oaks, CA: SAGE; Cato Institute. pp. 182–85. doi:10.4135/9781412965811.n112. ISBN 978-1-4129-6580-4. LCCN 2008009151. OCLC 750831024.  
  * Lewis, Anthony (2007). _Freedom for the Thought That We Hate: A Biography of the First Amendment_. Basic Books. ISBN 9780465039173. OCLC 494134545.  
  * McLeod, Kembrew (2007). _Freedom of Expression: Resistance and Repression in the Age of Intellectual Property_. Lawrence Lessig (foreword). University of Minnesota Press. ISBN 0816650314.  
  * Nelson, Samuel P. (2005). _Beyond the First Amendment: The Politics of Free Speech and Pluralism_. The Johns Hopkins University Press. ISBN 0801881730.  
  * Doomen, Jasper (2014). _Freedom and Equality in a Liberal Democratic State_. Bruylant. ISBN 9782802746232.  

## External links[edit]

Find more about **Freedom of speech** at Wikipedia's sister projects

  * Definitions from Wiktionary
  * Media from Wikimedia Commons
  * News from Wikinews
  * Quotations from Wikiquote
  * Texts from Wikisource
  * Textbooks from Wikibooks
  * Learning resources from Wikiversity

  * "Timeline: a history of free speech", David Smith and Luc Torres, _The Guardian_ , 5 February 2006.
  * "Original Meaning of Freedom of Speech or of the Press" (U.S.A), P.A. Madison, The Federalist Blog, 18 October 2008.
  * "Free Speech in the Age of YouTube", Somini Sengupta, _New York Times_ , 22 September 2012.
  * Article19.org, Global Campaign for Free Expression.
  * Free Speech Debate, a research project of the Dahrendorf Programme for the Study of Freedom at St Antony's College in the University of Oxford.
  * Index on Censorship, an international organisation that promotes and defends the right to freedom of expression.
  * Media Freedom Navigator: Media Freedom Indices at a Glance, Deutsche Welle Akademie.
  * Special Rapporteur for Freedom of Expression, Organization of American States.
  * Several images for Everybody Draw Mohammed Day by people who continue to draw, every year: 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, 10

  * v
  * t
  * e

Censorship  
  
---  
Media regulation |

  * Books (books banned)
  * Films (banned films)
  * Internet
    * circumvention
  * Music
  * Post
  * Press
  * Radio
  * Speech and expression
  * Thought
  * Video games

|  
  
Methods |

  * Bleeping
  * Book burning
  * Broadcast delay
  * Burying of scholars
  * Censor bars
  * Chilling effect
  * Concision
  * Conspiracy of silence
  * Content-control software
  * Euphemism
    * Minced oath
  * Expurgation
  * Fogging
  * Gag order
  * Heckling
  * Heckler's veto
  * Internet police
  * Memory hole
  * National intranet
  * Newspaper theft
  * Pixelization
  * Prior restraint
  * Propaganda
  * Purge
  * Revisionism
  * Sanitization
  * Self-censorship
  * Speech code
  * Strategic lawsuit
  * Surveillance
    * computer & network
    * mass
  * Whitewashing
  * Word filtering
  * Damnatio memoriae

  
  
Contexts |

  * Criminal
  * Corporate
  * Hate speech
  * Ideological
  * Media bias
  * Moralistic fallacy
  * Naturalistic fallacy
  * Politics
  * Propaganda model
  * Religious (Islamic)
  * Suppression of dissent
  * Systemic bias

  
  
By country |

  * Censorship
  * Freedom of speech
  * Internet censorship

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Liberty  
  
---  
Concepts |

  * Positive liberty
  * Negative liberty
  * Cognitive liberty
  * Social liberty
  * Rights
  * Free will
  * Moral responsibility
  * Goddess of Liberty

  
  
By type |

  * Academic
  * Civil
  * Economic
  * Intellectual
  * Morphological
  * Political

  
  
By right |

  * Assembly
  * Association
  * Choice
  * Education
  * Information
  * Movement
  * Press
  * Religion
  * Public speech
  * Thought

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Substantive human rights  
  
---  
  
Note: What is considered a human right is controversial and not all the topics
listed are universally accepted as human rights.  
  
Civil and political |

  * Cannabis rights
  * Equality before the law
  * Freedom from arbitrary arrest and detention
  * Freedom of assembly
  * Freedom of association
  * Freedom from cruel and unusual punishment
  * Freedom from discrimination
  * Freedom from exile
  * Freedom of information
  * Freedom of movement
  * Freedom of religion
  * Freedom from slavery
  * Freedom of speech
  * Freedom of thought
  * Freedom from torture
  * Legal aid
  * Liberty
  * LGBT rights
  * Nationality
  * Personhood
  * Presumption of innocence
  * Right of asylum
  * Right to die
  * Right to a fair trial
  * Right to family life
  * Right to keep and bear arms
  * Right to life
  * Right to petition
  * Right to privacy
  * Right to protest
  * Right to refuse medical treatment
  * Right of self-defense
  * Security of person
  * Universal suffrage

  
  
Economic, social  
and cultural

|

  * Digital rights
  * Equal pay for equal work
  * Fair remuneration
  * Labor rights
  * Right to an adequate standard of living
  * Right to clothing
  * Right to development
  * Right to education
  * Right to food
  * Right to health
  * Right to housing
  * Right to Internet access
  * Right to property
  * Right to public participation
  * Right of reply
  * Right of return
  * Right to science and culture
  * Right to social security
  * Right to water
  * Right to work
  * Trade union membership

  
  
Sexual and  
reproductive |

  * Abortion
  * Family planning
  * Freedom from involuntary female genital mutilation
  * Intersex human rights
  * LGBT rights
  * Reproductive health
  * Right to sexuality

  
  
Violations |

  * Corporal punishment

  
  
War and conflict |

  * Civilian
  * Combatant
  * Freedom from genocide
  * Prisoner of war
  * War rape

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Internet censorship and surveillance by country  
  
---  
Africa |

  * Algeria
  * Angola
  * Botswana
  * Burkina Faso
  * Burundi
  * Cameroon
  * Central African Republic
  * Chad
  * Congo DR
  * Congo RO
  * Egypt
  * Eritrea
  * Ethiopia
  * Gambia
  * Ghana
  * Guinea
  * Guinea-Bissau
  * Ivory Coast
  * Kenya
  * Lesotho
  * Liberia
  * Libya
  * Madagascar
  * Malawi
  * Mauritania
  * Morocco
  * Mozambique
  * Namibia
  * Niger
  * Nigeria
  * Rwanda
  * Senegal
  * Sierra Leone
  * Somalia
  * South Africa
  * Sudan
  * Swaziland
  * Tanzania
  * Togo
  * Tunisia
  * Western Sahara
  * Zambia
  * Zimbabwe

  
  
Americas |

  * Argentina
  * Bahamas
  * Belize
  * Bolivia
  * Brazil
  * Canada
  * Chile
  * Colombia
  * Costa Rica
  * Cuba
  * Dominican Republic
  * Ecuador
  * El Salvador
  * Greenland
  * Guatemala
  * Guyana
  * Haiti
  * Honduras
  * Jamaica
  * Mexico
  * Nicaragua
  * Panama
  * Paraguay
  * Peru
  * Suriname
  * Trinidad and Tobago
  * United States (Puerto Rico)
  * Uruguay
  * Venezuela

  
  
Asia |

  * Afghanistan
  * Armenia
  * Azerbaijan
  * Bahrain
  * Bangladesh
  * Bhutan
  * Cambodia
  * China (Hong Kong)
  * East Timor
  * India
  * Indonesia
  * Iran
  * Iraq
  * Japan
  * Jordan
  * Kazakhstan
  * Kuwait
  * Kyrgyzstan
  * Malaysia
  * Mongolia
  * Myanmar
  * Nepal
  * North Korea
  * Oman
  * Pakistan
  * Palestinian territories
  * Philippines
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Singapore
  * South Korea
  * Sri Lanka
  * Syria
  * Taiwan
  * Tajikistan
  * Thailand
  * Turkey
  * Turkmenistan
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Uzbekistan
  * Vietnam
  * Yemen

  
  
Europe |

  * Albania
  * Austria
  * Belarus
  * Belgium
  * Bosnia and Herzegovina
  * Bulgaria
  * Croatia
  * Cyprus
  * Czech Republic
  * Denmark
  * Estonia
  * Finland
  * France
  * Germany
  * Georgia
  * Greece
  * Hungary
  * Iceland
  * Ireland
  * Italy
  * Latvia
  * Lithuania
  * Macedonia
  * Moldova
  * Montenegro
  * Netherlands
  * Poland
  * Portugal
  * Romania
  * Russia
  * Serbia
  * Slovakia
  * Slovenia
  * Spain
  * Sweden
  * Switzerland
  * Ukraine
  * United Kingdom

  
  
Oceania |

  * Australia
  * Fiji
  * New Zealand
  * Papua New Guinea

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Media culture  
  
---  
Media |

  * Mass media
  * Mainstream media
  * 24-hour news cycle
  * Corporate media
  * News broadcasting
  * News media
  * Film
  * Internet
  * Radio
  * Television

  
  
Ideology |

  * Mainstream
  * Advanced capitalism
  * American Dream
  * Bipartisanship
  * Consumerism
  * Pensée unique
  * Pop music

  
  
Deception |

| Forms |

  * Advertising
  * Propaganda
  * Public relations
  * Spin
  * Tabloid journalism

  
  
---|---  
Techniques |

  * Cult of personality
  * Dumbing down
  * Framing
  * Media circus
  * Media event
  * Narcotizing dysfunction
  * Recuperation
  * Sensationalism

  
  
Others |

  * Crowd manipulation
  * Managing the news
  * Media manipulation

  
  
Philosophers |

  * Theodor W. Adorno
  * Jean Baudrillard
  * Edward Bernays
  * Noam Chomsky
  * Guy Debord
  * Walter Lippmann
  * Marshall McLuhan

  
  
Counterculture |

  * Boycott
  * Civil disobedience
  * Culture jamming
  * Demonstration
  * Graffiti
  * Occupation
  * Political satire
  * Protest
  * Punk
  * Strike action

  
  
In academia |

  * Influence of mass media
  * Media studies
  * Semiotic democracy
  * _The Lonely Crowd_

  
  
Issues |

  * Anonymity
  * Concentration of media ownership
  * Freedom of speech
  * Media bias
  * Privacy

  
  
Synonyms |

  * Advanced capitalism
  * Culture industry
  * Mass society
  * Post-Fordism
  * Society of the Spectacle

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Sexual revolution  
  
---  
Main topics |

  * Free love
  * Summer of Love

  
  
Milestones |

  * Abortion law
  * Divorce law by country
  * Freedom of speech
  * Freedom of the press
  * Golden Age of Porn
  * "Porno chic"
  * Pornography
  * Pornography in the United States
  * Swinging
  * The Pill (1965)
  * _United States v. One Book Called Ulysses_

  
  
Slogans |

  * "Make love, not war"
  * "The personal is political"

  
  
Events |

  * Kinsey Reports
  * Masters and Johnson Institute
  * _Playboy_
  * Protests of 1968
  * Stonewall riots

  
  
People |

  * Gerard Damiano
  * Hugh Hefner
  * Virginia Johnson
  * Alfred Kinsey
  * William Masters
  * Wilhelm Reich

  
  
Related topics |

  * Counterculture of the 1960s
  * Feminist views of pornography
  * Hippie
  * LGBT
  * LGBT culture in New York City
  * Lust
  * Peace movement

  
  
  * Freedom of speech portal
  * Human rights portal
  * Internet portal
  * Journalism portal
  * Law portal
  * Philosophy portal
  * Society portal
  * Writing portal

Authority control |

  * GND: 4038463-9
  * NDL: 00563847

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Freedom_of_speech&oldid=816408265"

Categories:

  * Freedom of speech
  * Censorship
  * Freedom of expression
  * Human rights by issue

Hidden categories:

  * Pages containing links to subscription-only content
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Use dmy dates from October 2016
  * Articles prone to spam from March 2014
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Articles with inconsistent citation formats

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Башҡортса
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Føroyskt
  * Français
  * Galego
  * گیلکی
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Kurdî
  * ລາວ
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * مصرى
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پښتو
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * Simple English
  * سنڌي
  * Slovenčina
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 吴语
  * ייִדיש
  * 粵語
  * Zeêuws
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 December 2017, at 04:09.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

