

# Geographic coordinate system

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Longitude lines are perpendicular to and latitude lines are parallel to the
equator.

A **geographic coordinate system** is a coordinate system used in geography
that enables every location on Earth to be specified by a set of numbers,
letters or symbols.[n 1] The coordinates are often chosen such that one of the
numbers represents a vertical position, and two or three of the numbers
represent a horizontal position. A common choice of coordinates is latitude,
longitude and elevation.[1]

To specify a location on a two-dimensional map requires a map projection.[2]

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Geographic(al) latitude and longitude
  * 3 Measuring height using datums
    * 3.1 Complexity of the problem
    * 3.2 Common baselines
    * 3.3 Datums
  * 4 Map projection
    * 4.1 UTM and UPS systems
    * 4.2 Stereographic coordinate system
  * 5 Cartesian coordinates
    * 5.1 Earth-centered, earth-fixed
    * 5.2 Local east, north, up (ENU) coordinates
    * 5.3 Local north, east, down (NED) coordinates
  * 6 Expressing latitude and longitude as linear units
  * 7 Geostationary coordinates
  * 8 On other celestial bodies
  * 9 See also
  * 10 Notes
  * 11 References
  * 12 External links

## History[edit]

Main articles: History of geodesy, history of longitude, and history of prime
meridians

The invention of a geographic coordinate system is generally credited to
Eratosthenes of Cyrene, who composed his now-lost _Geography_ at the Library
of Alexandria in the 3rd century BC.[3] A century later, Hipparchus of Nicaea
improved on this system by determining latitude from stellar measurements
rather than solar altitude and determining longitude by timings of lunar
eclipses, rather than dead reckoning. In the 1st or 2nd century, Marinus of
Tyre compiled an extensive gazetteer and mathematically-plotted world map
using coordinates measured east from a prime meridian at the westernmost known
land, designated the Fortunate Isles, off the coast of western Africa around
the Canary or Cape Verde Islands, and measured north or south of the island of
Rhodes off Asia Minor. Ptolemy credited him with the full adoption of
longitude and latitude, rather than measuring latitude in terms of the length
of the midsummer day.[4]

Ptolemy's 2nd-century _Geography_ used the same prime meridian but measured
latitude from the equator instead. After their work was translated into Arabic
in the 9th century, Al-Khwārizmī's _Book of the Description of the Earth_
corrected Marinus' and Ptolemy's errors regarding the length of the
Mediterranean Sea,[n 2] causing medieval Arabic cartography to use a prime
meridian around 10° east of Ptolemy's line. Mathematical cartography resumed
in Europe following Maximus Planudes' recovery of Ptolemy's text a little
before 1300; the text was translated into Latin at Florence by Jacobus Angelus
around 1407.

In 1884, the United States hosted the International Meridian Conference,
attended by representatives from twenty-five nations. Twenty-two of them
agreed to adopt the longitude of the Royal Observatory in Greenwich, England
as the zero-reference line. The Dominican Republic voted against the motion,
while France and Brazil abstained.[5] France adopted Greenwich Mean Time in
place of local determinations by the Paris Observatory in 1911.

## Geographic(al) latitude and longitude[edit]

0°

**Equator**

Main articles: Latitude and Longitude

The "latitude" (abbreviation: Lat., φ, or phi) of a point on Earth's surface
is the angle between the equatorial plane and the straight line that passes
through that point and through (or close to) the center of the Earth.[n 3]
Lines joining points of the same latitude trace circles on the surface of
Earth called parallels, as they are parallel to the equator and to each other.
The north pole is 90° N; the south pole is 90° S. The 0° parallel of latitude
is designated the equator, the fundamental plane of all geographic coordinate
systems. The equator divides the globe into Northern and Southern Hemispheres.

0°

**Prime Meridian**

The "longitude" (abbreviation: Long., λ, or lambda) of a point on Earth's
surface is the angle east or west of a reference meridian to another meridian
that passes through that point. All meridians are halves of great ellipses
(often called great circles), which converge at the north and south poles. The
meridian of the British Royal Observatory in Greenwich, in south-east London,
England, is the international prime meridian, although some organizations—such
as the French Institut Géographique National—continue to use other meridians
for internal purposes. The prime meridian determines the proper Eastern and
Western Hemispheres, although maps often divide these hemispheres further west
in order to keep the Old World on a single side. The antipodal meridian of
Greenwich is both 180°W and 180°E. This is not to be conflated with the
International Date Line, which diverges from it in several places for
political reasons, including between far eastern Russia and the far western
Aleutian Islands.

The combination of these two components specifies the position of any location
on the surface of Earth, without consideration of altitude or depth. The grid
formed by lines of latitude and longitude is known as a "graticule".[6] The
origin/zero point of this system is located in the Gulf of Guinea about 625 km
(390 mi) south of Tema, Ghana.

## Measuring height using datums[edit]

Main articles: Geodetic datum, Figure of the Earth, and Reference ellipsoid

### Complexity of the problem[edit]

To completely specify a location of a topographical feature on, in, or above
Earth, one also has to specify the vertical distance from Earth's center or
surface.

Earth is not a sphere, but an irregular shape approximating a biaxial
ellipsoid. It is nearly spherical, but has an equatorial bulge making the
radius at the equator about 0.3% larger than the radius measured through the
poles. The shorter axis approximately coincides with the axis of rotation.
Though early navigators thought of the sea as a flat surface that could be
used as a vertical datum, this is not actually the case. Earth has a series of
layers of equal potential energy within its gravitational field. Height is a
measurement at right angles to this surface, roughly toward Earth's centre,
but local variations make the equipotential layers irregular (though roughly
ellipsoidal). The choice of which layer to use for defining height is
arbitrary.

### Common baselines[edit]

Common height baselines include[2]

  * The surface of the datum ellipsoid, resulting in an _ellipsoidal height_
  * The mean sea level as described by the gravity geoid, yielding the orthometric height[1][7]
  * A vertical datum, yielding a dynamic height relative to a known reference height.

Along with the latitude  ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } and longitude  λ
{\displaystyle \lambda } , the height  h {\displaystyle h} provides the three-
dimensional _geodetic coordinates_ or _geographic coordinates_ for a
location.[8]

###  Datums[edit]

In order to be unambiguous about the direction of "vertical" and the "surface"
above which they are measuring, map-makers choose a reference ellipsoid with a
given origin and orientation that best fits their need for the area they are
mapping. They then choose the most appropriate mapping of the spherical
coordinate system onto that ellipsoid, called a terrestrial reference system
or geodetic datum.

Datums may be global, meaning that they represent the whole earth, or they may
be local, meaning that they represent an ellipsoid best-fit to only a portion
of the earth. Points on the earth's surface move relative to each other due to
continental plate motion, subsidence, and diurnal movement caused by the moon
and the tides. This daily movement can be as much as a metre. Continental
movement can be up to 10 cm a year, or 10 m in a century. A weather system
high-pressure area can cause a sinking of 5 mm. Scandinavia is rising by 1 cm
a year as a result of the melting of the ice sheets of the last ice age, but
neighbouring Scotland is rising by only 0.2 cm. These changes are
insignificant if a local datum is used, but are statistically significant if a
global datum is used.[1]

Examples of global datums include World Geodetic System (WGS 84), the default
datum used for the Global Positioning System,[n 4] and the International
Terrestrial Reference Frame (ITRF), used for estimating continental drift and
crustal deformation.[9] The distance to Earth's centre can be used both for
very deep positions and for positions in space.[1]

Local datums chosen by a national cartographical organisation include the
North American Datum, the European ED50, and the British OSGB36. Given a
location, the datum provides the latitude  ϕ {\displaystyle \phi } and
longitude  λ {\displaystyle \lambda } . In the United Kingdom there are three
common latitude, longitude, and height systems in use. WGS 84 differs at
Greenwich from the one used on published maps OSGB36 by approximately 112m.
The military system ED50, used by NATO, differs from about 120m to 180m.[1]

The latitude and longitude on a map made against a local datum may not be the
same as one obtained from a GPS receiver. Coordinates from the mapping system
can sometimes be roughly changed into another datum using a simple
translation. For example, to convert from ETRF89 (GPS) to the Irish Grid add
49 metres to the east, and subtract 23.4 metres from the north.[10] More
generally one datum is changed into any other datum using a process called
Helmert transformations. This involves converting the spherical coordinates
into Cartesian coordinates and applying a seven parameter transformation
(translation, three-dimensional rotation), and converting back.[1]

In popular GIS software, data projected in latitude/longitude is often
represented as a 'Geographic Coordinate System'. For example, data in
latitude/longitude if the datum is the North American Datum of 1983 is denoted
by 'GCS North American 1983'.

Further information: Geographic coordinate conversion

## Map projection[edit]

Main article: Map projection

To establish the position of a geographic location on a map, a map projection
is used to convert geodetic coordinates to two-dimensional coordinates on a
map; it projects the datum ellipsoidal coordinates and height onto a flat
surface of a map. The datum, along with a map projection applied to a grid of
reference locations, establishes a _grid system_ for plotting locations.
Common map projections in current use include the Universal Transverse
Mercator (UTM), the Military Grid Reference System (MGRS), the United States
National Grid (USNG), the Global Area Reference System (GARS) and the World
Geographic Reference System (GEOREF).[11] Coordinates on a map are usually in
terms northing N and easting E offsets relative to a specified origin.

Map projection formulas depend in the geometry of the projection as well as
parameters dependent on the particular location at which the map is projected.
The set of parameters can vary based on type of project and the conventions
chosen for the projection. For the transverse Mercator projection used in UTM,
the parameters associated are the latitude and longitude of the natural
origin, the false northing and false easting, and an overall scale factor.[12]
Given the parameters associated with particular location or grin, the
projection formulas for the transverse Mercator are a complex mix of algebraic
and trigonometric functions.[12]:45-54

### UTM and UPS systems[edit]

Main articles: Universal Transverse Mercator and Universal Polar Stereographic

The Universal Transverse Mercator (UTM) and Universal Polar Stereographic
(UPS) coordinate systems both use a metric-based cartesian grid laid out on a
conformally projected surface to locate positions on the surface of the Earth.
The UTM system is not a single map projection but a series of sixty, each
covering 6-degree bands of longitude. The UPS system is used for the polar
regions, which are not covered by the UTM system.

### Stereographic coordinate system[edit]

Further information: Stereographic projection

During medieval times, the stereographic coordinate system was used for
navigation purposes.[ _citation needed_ ] The stereographic coordinate system
was superseded by the latitude-longitude system. Although no longer used in
navigation, the stereographic coordinate system is still used in modern times
to describe crystallographic orientations in the fields of crystallography,
mineralogy and materials science.[ _citation needed_ ]

## Cartesian coordinates[edit]

Main article: axes conventions

Every point that is expressed in ellipsoidal coordinates can be expressed as
an rectilinear x y z (Cartesian) coordinate. Cartesian coordinates simplify
many mathematical calculations. The Cartesian systems of different datums are
not equivalent.[2]

### Earth-centered, earth-fixed[edit]

Earth Centered, Earth Fixed coordinates in relation to latitude and longitude.

Main article: ECEF

The earth-centered earth-fixed (also known as the ECEF, ECF, or conventional
terrestrial coordinate system) rotates with the Earth and has its origin at
the center of the Earth.

The conventional right-handed coordinate system puts:

  * The origin at the center of mass of the earth, a point close to the Earth's center of figure
  * The Z axis on the line between the north and south poles, with positive values increasing northward (but does not exactly coincide with the Earth's rotational axis)[13]
  * The X and Y axes in the plane of the equator
  * The X axis passing through extending from 180 degrees longitude at the equator (negative) to 0 degrees longitude (prime meridian) at the equator (positive)
  * The Y axis passing through extending from 90 degrees west longitude at the equator (negative) to 90 degrees east longitude at the equator (positive)

An example is the NGS data for a brass disk near Donner Summit, in California.
Given the dimensions of the ellipsoid, the conversion from lat/lon/height-
above-ellipsoid coordinates to X-Y-Z is straightforward—calculate the X-Y-Z
for the given lat-lon on the surface of the ellipsoid and add the X-Y-Z vector
that is perpendicular to the ellipsoid there and has length equal to the
point's height above the ellipsoid. The reverse conversion is harder: given
X-Y-Z we can immediately get longitude, but no closed formula for latitude and
height exists. See "Geodetic system." Using Bowring's formula in 1976 _Survey
Review_ the first iteration gives latitude correct within 10 -11 degree as
long as the point is within 10000 meters above or 5000 meters below the
ellipsoid.

### Local east, north, up (ENU) coordinates[edit]

Earth Centred Earth Fixed and East, North, Up coordinates.

In many targeting and tracking applications the local East, North, Up (ENU)
Cartesian coordinate system is far more intuitive and practical than ECEF or
Geodetic coordinates. The local ENU coordinates are formed from a plane
tangent to the Earth's surface fixed to a specific location and hence it is
sometimes known as a "Local Tangent" or "local geodetic" plane. By convention
the east axis is labeled  x {\displaystyle x} , the north  y {\displaystyle y}
and the up  z {\displaystyle z} .

### Local north, east, down (NED) coordinates[edit]

**Also known as local tangent plane (LTP).** In an airplane, most objects of
interest are below the aircraft, so it is sensible to define down as a
positive number. The North, East, Down (NED) coordinates allow this as an
alternative to the ENU local tangent plane. By convention, the north axis is
labeled  x ′ {\displaystyle x\prime } , the east  y ′ {\displaystyle y\prime }
and the down  z ′ {\displaystyle z\prime } . To avoid confusion between  x
{\displaystyle x} and  x ′ {\displaystyle x\prime } , etc. in this web page we
will restrict the local coordinate frame to ENU.

## Expressing latitude and longitude as linear units[edit]

Main articles: Length of a degree of latitude and Length of a degree of
longitude

|

This section **does notcite any sources**.  Please help improve this section
by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged
and removed. _(May 2015)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
On the GRS80 or WGS84 spheroid at sea level at the equator, one latitudinal
second measures _30.715metres_ , one latitudinal minute is _1843  metres_ and
one latitudinal degree is _110.6  kilometres_. The circles of longitude,
meridians, meet at the geographical poles, with the west-east width of a
second naturally decreasing as latitude increases. On the equator at sea
level, one longitudinal second measures _30.92  metres_, a longitudinal minute
is _1855  metres_ and a longitudinal degree is _111.3  kilometres_. At 30° a
longitudinal second is _26.76  metres_, at Greenwich (51°28′38″N) _19.22
metres_, and at 60° it is _15.42  metres_.

On the WGS84 spheroid, the length in meters of a degree of latitude at
latitude φ (that is, the distance along a north–south line from latitude (φ −
0.5) degrees to (φ + 0.5) degrees) is about

     111132.92 − 559.82 cos ⁡ 2 φ + 1.175 cos ⁡ 4 φ − 0.0023 cos ⁡ 6 φ {\displaystyle 111132.92-559.82\,\cos 2\varphi +1.175\,\cos 4\varphi -0.0023\,\cos 6\varphi } [14]

Similarly, the length in meters of a degree of longitude can be calculated as

     111412.84 cos ⁡ φ − 93.5 cos ⁡ 3 φ + 0.118 cos ⁡ 5 φ {\displaystyle 111412.84\,\cos \varphi -93.5\,\cos 3\varphi +0.118\,\cos 5\varphi } [14]

(Those coefficients can be improved, but as they stand the distance they give
is correct within a centimeter.)

An alternative method to estimate the length of a longitudinal degree at
latitude  φ {\displaystyle \scriptstyle {\varphi }\,\\!} is to assume a
spherical Earth (to get the width per minute and second, divide by 60 and
3600, respectively):

     π 180 M r cos ⁡ φ {\displaystyle {\frac {\pi }{180}}M_{r}\cos \varphi \\!}

where Earth's average meridional radius M r {\displaystyle \scriptstyle
{M_{r}}\,\\!} is 6,367,449 m. Since the Earth is not spherical that result can
be off by several tenths of a percent; a better approximation of a
longitudinal degree at latitude  φ {\displaystyle \scriptstyle {\varphi
}\,\\!} is

     π 180 a cos ⁡ β {\displaystyle {\frac {\pi }{180}}a\cos \beta \,\\!}

where Earth's equatorial radius  a {\displaystyle a} equals _6,378,137 m_ and
tan ⁡ β = b a tan ⁡ φ {\displaystyle \scriptstyle {\tan \beta ={\frac
{b}{a}}\tan \varphi }\,\\!} ; for the GRS80 and WGS84 spheroids, b/a
calculates to be 0.99664719. ( β {\displaystyle \scriptstyle {\beta }\,\\!} is
known as the reduced (or parametric) latitude). Aside from rounding, this is
the exact distance along a parallel of latitude; getting the distance along
the shortest route will be more work, but those two distances are always
within 0.6 meter of each other if the two points are one degree of longitude
apart.

Longitudinal length equivalents at selected latitudes Latitude | City | Degree
| Minute | Second | ±0.0001°  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
60° | Saint Petersburg | 55.80 km | 0.930 km | 15.50 m | 5.58 m  
51° 28′ 38″ N | Greenwich | 69.47 km | 1.158 km | 19.30 m | 6.95 m  
45° | Bordeaux | 78.85 km | 1.31 km | 21.90 m | 7.89 m  
30° | New Orleans | 96.49 km | 1.61 km | 26.80 m | 9.65 m  
0° | Quito | 111.3 km | 1.855 km | 30.92 m | 11.13 m  
  
## Geostationary coordinates[edit]

Geostationary satellites (e.g., television satellites) are over the equator at
a specific point on Earth, so their position related to Earth is expressed in
longitude degrees only. Their latitude is always zero (or approximately so),
that is, over the equator.

## On other celestial bodies[edit]

Similar coordinate systems are defined for other celestial bodies such as:

  * A similarly well-defined system based on the reference ellipsoid for Mars.
  * Selenographic coordinates for the Moon

## See also[edit]

  * Atlas portal

  * Decimal degrees
  * Geodetic datum
  * Geographic coordinate conversion
  * Geographic information system
  * Geographical distance
  * Linear referencing
  * Map projection
  * Spatial reference systems

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** In specialized works, "geographic coordinates" are distinguished from other similar coordinate systems, such as geocentric coordinates and geodetic coordinates. See, for example, Sean E. Urban and P. Kenneth Seidelmann, _Explanatory Supplement to the Astronomical Almanac, 3rd. ed., (Mill Valley CA: University Science Books, 2013) p. 20–23._
  2. **^** The pair had accurate absolute distances within the Mediterranean but underestimated the circumference of the earth, causing their degree measurements to overstate its length west from Rhodes or Alexandria, respectively.
  3. **^** Alternative versions of latitude and longitude include geocentric coordinates, which measure with respect to Earth's center; geodetic coordinates, which model Earth as an ellipsoid; and geographic coordinates, which measure with respect to a plumb line at the location for which coordinates are given.
  4. **^** WGS 84 is the default datum used in most GPS equipment, but other datums can be selected.

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _A guide to coordinate systems in Great Britain_ (PDF), D00659 v2.3, Ordnance Survey, Mar 2015, retrieved 2015-06-22 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Taylor, Chuck. "Locating a Point On the Earth". Retrieved 4 March 2014. 
  3. **^** McPhail, Cameron (2011), _Reconstructing Eratosthenes' Map of the World_ (PDF), Dunedin: University of Otago, pp. 20–24 .
  4. **^** Evans, James (1998), _The History and Practice of Ancient Astronomy_, Oxford: Oxford University Press, pp. 102–103, ISBN 9780199874453  .
  5. **^** Greenwich 2000 Limited (9 June 2011). "The International Meridian Conference". Wwp.millennium-dome.com. Archived from the original on 6 August 2012. Retrieved 31 October 2012. 
  6. **^** American Society of Civil Engineers (1994-01-01). _Glossary of the Mapping Sciences_. ASCE Publications. p. 224\. ISBN 9780784475706.  
  7. **^** DMA Technical Report Geodesy for the Layman, The Defense Mapping Agency, 1983
  8. **^** Kwok, Geodetic Survey Section Lands Department Hong Kong. "Geodetic Datum Transformation, p.24" (PDF). Geodetic Survey Section Lands Department Hong Kong. Retrieved 4 March 2014. 
  9. **^** Bolstad, Paul. _GIS Fundamentals, 4th Edition_ (PDF). Atlas books. p. 89\. ISBN 978-0-9717647-3-6. 
  10. **^** "Making maps compatible with GPS". Government of Ireland 1999. Archived from the original on 21 July 2011. Retrieved  15 April 2008. 
  11. **^** "Grids and Reference Systems". National Geospatial-Intelligence Agenc. Retrieved  4 March 2014. 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Geomatics Guidance Note Number 7, part 2 Coordinate Conversions and Transformations including Formulas" (PDF). International Association of Oil and Gas Producers (OGP). pp. 9–10. Archived from the original (PDF) on 6 March 2014. Retrieved 5 March 2014. 
  13. **^** Note on the BIRD ACS Reference Frames Archived 18 July 2011 at the Wayback Machine.
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ [1] Geographic Information Systems - Stackexchange

  * _Portions of this article are from Jason Harris' "Astroinfo" which is distributed withKStars, a desktop planetarium for Linux/KDE. See The KDE Education Project - KStars_

##  External links[edit]

| Wikidata has the property: _**coordinate location (P625)**_ (see uses)  
---|---  
  
  * Media related to Geographic coordinate system at Wikimedia Commons

  * v
  * t
  * e

Circles of latitude / Meridians  
  
---  
  
**Equator**

Tropic of Cancer

Tropic of Capricorn

Arctic Circle

Antarctic Circle

**Equator**

Tropic of Cancer

Tropic of Capricorn

Arctic Circle

Antarctic Circle

**Equator**

Tropic of Cancer

Tropic of Capricorn

Arctic Circle

Antarctic Circle

**W 0° E**

30°

60°

**90°**

120°

150°

**180°**

30°

60°

**90°**

120°

150°

**180°**

5°

15°

25°

35°

45°

55°

65°

75°

85°

95°

105°

115°

125°

135°

145°

155°

165°

175°

5°

15°

25°

35°

45°

55°

65°

75°

85°

95°

105°

115°

125°

135°

145°

155°

165°

175°

10°

20°

40°

50°

70°

80°

100°

110°

130°

140°

160°

170°

10°

20°

40°

50°

70°

80°

100°

110°

130°

140°

160°

170°

**0°**

10°

20°

30°

40°

50°

60°

70°

80°

90°

10°

20°

30°

40°

50°

60°

70°

80°

90°

5° **N**

15°

25°

35°

**45°**

55°

65°

75°

85°

5° **S**

15°

25°

35°

**45°**

55°

65°

75°

85°

45x90

45x90

45x90

45x90  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Geographic_coordinate_system&oldid=811468985"

Categories:

  * Geographic coordinate systems
  * Cartography
  * Geocodes
  * Geodesy
  * Navigation

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
  * Use dmy dates from July 2013
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2007
  * Articles needing additional references from May 2015
  * All articles needing additional references

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiversity

### Languages

  * Acèh
  * Адыгэбзэ
  * Afrikaans
  * Alemannisch
  * አማርኛ
  * العربية
  * Aragonés
  * অসমীয়া
  * Asturianu
  * Авар
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Basa Banyumasan
  * Башҡортса
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * भोजपुरी
  * Български
  * Boarisch
  * Bosanski
  * Brezhoneg
  * Català
  * Cebuano
  * Čeština
  * ChiShona
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Dolnoserbski
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Frysk
  * Furlan
  * Gaeilge
  * Gaelg
  * Gàidhlig
  * Galego
  * ગુજરાતી
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hornjoserbsce
  * Hrvatski
  * Ilokano
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Interlingua
  * Ирон
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kiswahili
  * Кыргызча
  * ລາວ
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Ligure
  * Lumbaart
  * Magyar
  * मैथिली
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * მარგალური
  * مصرى
  * مازِرونی
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Baso Minangkabau
  * Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
  * Монгол
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nāhuatl
  * Nederlands
  * Nedersaksies
  * नेपाली
  * 日本語
  * Napulitano
  * Нохчийн
  * Norsk
  * Occitan
  * Олык марий
  * ଓଡ଼ିଆ
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * Pälzisch
  * پنجابی
  * پښتو
  * Piemontèis
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Qaraqalpaqsha
  * Română
  * Runa Simi
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * संस्कृतम्
  * Sardu
  * Scots
  * Sesotho sa Leboa
  * Setswana
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * سنڌي
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Ślůnski
  * Soomaaliga
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Basa Sunda
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Тоҷикӣ
  * Türkçe
  * Türkmençe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Vèneto
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Volapük
  * Võro
  * West-Vlams
  * Winaray
  * 吴语
  * Yorùbá
  * 粵語
  * 中文
  * डोटेली

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 November 2017, at 20:38.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

