

# Georgia Institute of Technology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Georgia Institute of Technology  
---  
  
Former name

| Georgia School of Technology  
Motto | Progress and Service  
Type | Public  
Space grant  
Established | October 13, 1885 (1885-10-13)[1]  
Affiliation | University System of Georgia  
  
Academic affiliation

| AAU  
SURA  
ORAU  
APLU  
Endowment | $1.844 billion (2016)[2]  
President | G. P. "Bud" Peterson  
Provost | Rafael L. Bras  
Dean | John Stein  
  
Academic staff

| 1,740 (Fall 2015)[3]  
  
Administrative staff

| 5,923 (Fall 2017)[3]  
Students | 29,370 (Fall 2017)[4]  
Undergraduates | 15,572 (Fall 2017)[4]  
Postgraduates | 13,798 (Fall 2017)[4]  
Location | Atlanta, Georgia, U.S.  
33°46′33″N 84°23′41″W﻿ / ﻿33.77583°N 84.39472°W﻿ / 33.77583;
-84.39472Coordinates: 33°46′33″N 84°23′41″W﻿ / ﻿33.77583°N 84.39472°W﻿ /
33.77583; -84.39472  
Campus | Urban, 373 acres (1.51 km2)[5]  
Colors | Buzz Gold and White (academic)[6]  
  
Old Gold and White (athletics)[6]  
  
Nickname | Yellow Jackets  
  
Sporting affiliations

| NCAA Division I – ACC  
Mascot | Buzz and Ramblin' Wreck  
Website | www.gatech.edu  
  
The **Georgia Institute of Technology** , commonly referred to as **Georgia
Tech** , is a public research university in Atlanta, Georgia, in the United
States. It is a part of the University System of Georgia and has satellite
campuses in Savannah, Georgia; Metz, France; Athlone, Ireland; Shenzhen,
China; and Singapore.

The school was founded in 1885 as the **Georgia School of Technology** as part
of Reconstruction plans to build an industrial economy in the post-Civil War
Southern United States. Initially, it offered only a degree in mechanical
engineering. By 1901, its curriculum had expanded to include electrical,
civil, and chemical engineering. In 1948, the school changed its name to
reflect its evolution from a trade school to a larger and more capable
technical institute and research university.

Today, Georgia Tech is organized into six colleges and contains about 31
departments/units, with emphasis on science and technology. It is well
recognized for its degree programs in engineering, computing, business
administration, the sciences, design, and liberal arts. Georgia Tech is ranked
7th among all public national universities in the United States, 34th among
all colleges and universities in the United States, and 71st among global
universities in the world by _U.S. News& World Report_ rankings.[7] Georgia
Tech is also highly regarded internationally for its engineering and business
programs, and has been ranked as the "smartest" public college in America
(based on average standardized test scores).[8]

Student athletics, both organized and intramural, are a part of student and
alumni life. The school's intercollegiate competitive sports teams, the four-
time football national champion Yellow Jackets, and the nationally recognized
fight song "Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech", have helped keep Georgia Tech
in the national spotlight. Georgia Tech fields eight men's and seven women's
teams that compete in the NCAA Division I athletics and the Football Bowl
Subdivision. Georgia Tech is a member of the Coastal Division in the Atlantic
Coast Conference.

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Establishment
    * 1.2 Early years
    * 1.3 Modern history
  * 2 Campuses
    * 2.1 West Campus
    * 2.2 East Campus
    * 2.3 Central Campus
    * 2.4 Technology Square
    * 2.5 Satellite campuses
    * 2.6 Campus services
  * 3 Organization and administration
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Demographics
    * 4.2 Funding
    * 4.3 Rankings
  * 5 Research
    * 5.1 Industry connections
  * 6 Student life
    * 6.1 Traditions
    * 6.2 Housing
    * 6.3 Student clubs and activities
    * 6.4 Arts
    * 6.5 Student media
    * 6.6 Greek life
    * 6.7 Student stress
  * 7 Athletics
    * 7.1 Fight songs
    * 7.2 Club sports
  * 8 Alumni
  * 9 References
  * 10 Further reading
  * 11 External links

## History[edit]

Main article: History of Georgia Tech

### Establishment[edit]

Atlanta during the Civil War, c. 1864

The idea of a technology school in Georgia was introduced in 1865 during the
Reconstruction period. Two former Confederate officers, Major John Fletcher
Hanson (an industrialist) and Nathaniel Edwin Harris (a politician and
eventually Governor of Georgia), who had become prominent citizens in the town
of Macon, Georgia after the Civil War, strongly believed that the South needed
to improve its technology to compete with the industrial revolution that was
occurring throughout the North.[9][10] However, because the American South of
that era was mainly populated by agricultural workers and few technical
developments were occurring, a technology school was needed.[9][10]

In 1882, the Georgia State Legislature authorized a committee, led by Harris,
to visit the Northeast to see firsthand how technology schools worked. They
were impressed by the polytechnic educational models developed at the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the Worcester County Free Institute
of Industrial Science (now Worcester Polytechnic Institute). The committee
recommended adapting the Worcester model, which stressed a combination of
"theory and practice", the "practice" component including student employment
and production of consumer items to generate revenue for the school.[11]

On October 13, 1885, Georgia Governor Henry D. McDaniel signed the bill to
create and fund the new school.[1] In 1887, Atlanta pioneer Richard Peters
donated to the state 4 acres (1.6 ha) of the site of a failed garden suburb
called Peters Park. The site was bounded on the south by North Avenue, and on
the west by Cherry Street.[1] He then sold five adjoining acres of land to the
state for US$10,000, (equivalent to $270,000 in 2016).[1] This land was near
Atlanta's northern city limits at the time of its founding, although the city
has expanded several miles beyond it. A historical marker on the large hill in
Central Campus notes the site occupied by the school's first buildings once
held fortifications to protect Atlanta during the Atlanta Campaign of the
American Civil War.[12] The surrender of the city took place on the
southwestern boundary of the modern Georgia Tech campus in 1864.[13]

### Early years[edit]

An early picture of Georgia Tech

The Georgia School of Technology opened in the fall of 1888 with two
buildings.[9] One building (now Tech Tower, an administrative headquarters)
had classrooms to teach students; The second building featured a shop and had
a foundry, forge, boiler room, and engine room. It was designed for students
to work and produce goods to sell and fund the school. The two buildings were
equal in size to show the importance of teaching both the mind and the hands,
though, at the time, there was some disagreement to whether the machine shop
should have been used to turn a profit.[9][11]

On October 20, 1905, U.S. President Theodore Roosevelt visited Georgia Tech.
On the steps of Tech Tower, Roosevelt delivered a speech about the importance
of technological education.[14] He then shook hands with every student.[15]

Georgia Tech's Evening School of Commerce began holding classes in 1912.[16]
The evening school admitted its first female student in 1917, although the
state legislature did not officially authorize attendance by women until
1920.[16][17] Annie T. Wise became the first female graduate in 1919 and was
Georgia Tech's first female faculty member the following year.[16][17] In
1931, the Board of Regents transferred control of the Evening School of
Commerce to the University of Georgia (UGA) and moved the civil and electrical
engineering courses at UGA to Tech.[16][17] Tech replaced the commerce school
with what later became the College of Business. The commerce school would
later split from UGA and eventually become Georgia State University.[16][18]
In 1934, the Engineering Experiment Station (later known as the Georgia Tech
Research Institute) was founded by W. Harry Vaughan with an initial budget of
$5,000 (equivalent to $89,515 in 2016) and 13 part-time faculty.[19][20]

### Modern history[edit]

Founded as the Georgia School of Technology, Georgia Tech assumed its present
name in 1948 to reflect a growing focus on advanced technological and
scientific research.[21] Unlike most similarly named universities (such as the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology and the California Institute of
Technology), the Georgia Institute of Technology is a public institution.

Former Georgia Tech President G. Wayne Clough speaks at a student meeting.

Tech first admitted female students to regular classes in 1952, although women
could not enroll in all programs at Tech until 1968.[22] Industrial Management
was the last program to open to women.[16][22] The first women's dorm, Fulmer
Hall, opened in 1969.[16] Rena Faye Smith, appointed as a research assistant
in the School of Physics in 1969 by Dr. Ray Young, in X-Ray Diffraction,
became the first female faculty member (research) in the School of Physics.
She went on to earn a Ph.D. at Georgia State University and taught physics and
instructional technology at Black Hills State University – 1997–2005 as Rena
Faye Norby. She served as a Fulbright Scholar in Russia 2004–2005.[23] Women
constituted 30.3% of the undergraduates and 25.3% of the graduate students
enrolled in Spring 2009.[24]

In 1959, a meeting of 2,741 students voted by an overwhelming majority to
endorse integration of qualified applicants, regardless of race.[25] Three
years after the meeting, and one year after the University of Georgia's
violent integration,[26] Georgia Tech became the first university in the Deep
South to desegregate without a court order.[25][27][28] There was little
reaction to this by Tech students; like the city of Atlanta described by
former Mayor William Hartsfield, they seemed "too busy to hate".[25]

In 1965 the university bought the former Pickrick Restaurant, a site of
confrontation in the Civil Rights movement, which it first used as a placement
center. Later, it was known as the Ajax Building. The building was razed in
2009.

Similarly, there was little student reaction at Georgia Tech to the Vietnam
War and United States involvement in the Cambodian Civil War. The student
council defeated a resolution supporting the Vietnam Moratorium, and the
extent of the Tech community's response to the Kent State shooting was limited
to a student-organized memorial service, though the Institute was ordered
closed for two days, along with all other University System of Georgia
schools.[19]

In 1988, President John Patrick Crecine pushed through a restructuring of the
university. The Institute at that point had three colleges: the College of
Engineering, the College of Management, and the catch-all COSALS, the College
of Sciences and Liberal Arts. Crecine reorganized the latter two into the
College of Computing, the College of Sciences, and the Ivan Allen College of
Management, Policy, and International Affairs.[29][30] Crecine never asked for
input regarding the changes and, consequently, many faculty members disliked
his top-down management style; despite this, the changes passed by a slim
margin.[29] Crecine was also instrumental in securing the 1996 Summer Olympics
for Atlanta. A large amount of construction occurred, creating most of what is
now considered "West Campus" for Tech to serve as the Olympic Village, and
significantly gentrifying Midtown Atlanta.[31][32] The Undergraduate Living
Center, Fourth Street Apartments, Sixth Street Apartments, Eighth Street
Apartments, Hemphill Apartments, and Center Street Apartments housed athletes
and journalists. The Georgia Tech Aquatic Center was built for swimming
events, and the Alexander Memorial Coliseum was renovated.[16][32] The
Institute also erected the Kessler Campanile and fountain to serve as a
landmark and symbol of the Institute on television broadcasts.[16]

The Kessler Campanile seen from the Georgia Tech Student Center.

In 1994, G. Wayne Clough became the first Tech alumnus to serve as the
president of the Institute; he was in office during the 1996 Summer Olympics.
In 1998, he separated the Ivan Allen College of Management, Policy, and
International Affairs into the Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts and returned
the College of Management to "College" status (Crecine, the previous
president, had demoted Management from "College" to "School" status as part of
a controversial 1990 reorganization plan).[29][30] His tenure focused on a
dramatic expansion of the Institute, a revamped Undergraduate Research
Opportunities Program, and the creation of an International Plan.[33][34][35]
On March 15, 2008, he was appointed secretary of the Smithsonian Institution,
effective July 1, 2008.[36] Dr. Gary Schuster, Tech's provost and executive
vice president for Academic Affairs, was named interim president, effective
July 1, 2008.[37]

On April 1, 2009, G. P. "Bud" Peterson, previously the chancellor of the
University of Colorado at Boulder, became the 11th president of Georgia
Tech.[38] On April 20, 2010, Georgia Tech was invited to join the Association
of American Universities, the first new member institution in nine years.[39]
In 2014, Georgia Tech launched the first "massive online open degree" in
computer science by partnering with Udacity and AT&T; a complete degree
through that program costs students $7,000.[40][41][42]

On September 16, 2017, a 21-year-old computer engineering major, Scout
Schultz, was shot dead by the Georgia Tech Police Department after approaching
officers while holding a closed multi-tool and saying "Shoot Me."[43]

## Campuses[edit]

Main article: Georgia Tech main campus

Georgia Tech's East Campus and Central Campus as seen from an elevated point
near Peachtree Street and North Avenue. Bobby Dodd Stadium is in the
foreground, Tech Tower and Junior's Grill are in the background to the left,
and the Georgia Tech Campus Recreation Center is in the background and to the
right. The Varsity is in the immediate foreground between the viewer and Bobby
Dodd Stadium.

The Georgia Tech campus is located in Midtown, an area north of downtown
Atlanta. Although a number of skyscrapers—most visibly the headquarters of
AT&T, The Coca-Cola Company, and Bank of America—are visible from all points
on campus, the campus itself has few buildings over four stories and has a
great deal of greenery. This gives it a distinctly suburban atmosphere quite
different from other Atlanta campuses such as that of Georgia State
University.[44][45]

The campus is organized into four main parts: West Campus, East Campus,
Central Campus, and Technology Square. West Campus and East Campus are both
occupied primarily by student living complexes, while Central Campus is
reserved primarily for teaching and research buildings.[44]

### West Campus[edit]

The front of the Georgia Tech Campus Recreation Center

West Campus is occupied primarily by apartments and coed undergraduate
dormitories. Apartments include Crecine, Center Street, 6th Street, Maulding,
Undergraduate Living Center (ULC), and Eighth Street Apartments, while dorms
include Freeman, Montag, Fitten, Folk, Caldwell, Armstrong, Hefner, Fulmer,
and Woodruff Suites.[44] The Campus Recreation Center (formerly the Student
Athletic Complex); a volleyball court; a large, low natural green area known
as the Burger Bowl; and a flat artificial green area known as the CRC
(formerly SAC) Fields are all located on the western side of the campus.

West Campus was formerly home to Under the Couch, which relocated to the
Student Center in the fall of 2010. Also within walking distance of West
Campus are several late-night eateries. West Campus is home to a convenience
store, West Side Market. Due to limited space, all auto travel proceeds via a
network of one-way streets which connects West Campus to Ferst Drive, the main
road of the campus. Woodruff Dining Hall, or "Woody's", is the West Campus
Dining Hall.[46] It connects the Woodruff North and Woodruff South
undergraduate dorms.

### East Campus[edit]

Brittain Dining Hall, the main dining hall for East Campus.

East Campus houses all of the fraternities and sororities as well as most of
the undergraduate freshman dormitories. East Campus abuts the Downtown
Connector, granting residences quick access to Midtown and its businesses (for
example, The Varsity) via a number of bridges over the highway. Georgia Tech
football's home, Bobby Dodd Stadium is located on East Campus, as well as
Georgia Tech basketball's home, McCamish Pavilion (formerly Alexander Memorial
Coliseum).[44]

Brittain Dining Hall is the main dining hall for East Campus. It is modeled
after a medieval church, complete with carved columns and stained glass
windows showing symbolic figures.[46] The main road leading from East Campus
to Central Campus is a steep ascending incline commonly known as "Freshman
Hill" (in reference to the large number of freshman dorms near its foot). On
March 8, 2007, the former Georgia State University Village apartments were
transferred to Georgia Tech. Renamed North Avenue Apartments by the institute,
they began housing students in the fall semester of 2007.[47]

### Central Campus[edit]

See also: Georgia Institute of Technology Historic District

Central Campus is home to the majority of the academic, research, and
administrative buildings. The Central Campus includes, among others: the Howey
Physics Building; the Boggs Chemistry Building; the College of Computing
Building; the Klaus Advanced Computing Building; the College of Design
Building; the Skiles Classroom Building, which houses the School of
Mathematics and the School of Literature, Media and Culture; the D. M. Smith
Building, which houses the School of Public Policy; and the Ford Environmental
Science & Technology Building.[44] In 2005, the School of Modern Languages
returned to the Swann Building, a 100-year-old former dormitory that now
houses some of the most technology-equipped classrooms on campus.[48][49]
Intermingled with these are a variety of research facilities, such as the
Centennial Research Building, the Microelectronics Research Center, the Neely
Nuclear Research Center, the Nanotechnology Research Center, and the Petit
Biotechnology Building.

The Carnegie Building, constructed in 1907, is located in the Historic
District of Central Campus. It was originally the campus library, and it now
houses the President's office.

Tech's administrative buildings, such as Tech Tower, and the Bursar's Office,
are also located on the Central Campus, in the recently renovated Georgia Tech
Historic District.[50][51] The campus library, the Fred B. Wenn Student
Center, and the Student Services Building ("Flag Building") are also located
on Central Campus. The Student Center provides a variety of recreational and
social functions for students including: a computer lab, a game room ("Tech
Rec"),[52] the Student Post Office, a music venue, a movie theater, the Food
Court, plus meeting rooms for various clubs and organizations. Adjacent to the
eastern entrance of the Student Center is the Kessler Campanile (which is
referred to by students as "The Shaft").[53] The former Hightower Textile
Engineering building was demolished in 2002 to create Yellow Jacket Park. More
greenspace now occupies the area around the Kessler Campanile for a more
aesthetically pleasing look, in accordance with the official Campus Master
Plan.[54] In August 2011, the G. Wayne Clough Undergraduate Learning Commons
opened next to the library and occupies part of the Yellow Jacket Park
area.[55]

### Technology Square[edit]

Main article: Technology Square

A view of Technology Square

Technology Square, also known as "Tech Square", is located across the Downtown
Connector and embedded in the city east of East Campus.[56] Opened in August
2003 at a cost of $179 million, the district was built over run-down
neighborhoods and has sparked a revitalization of the entire Midtown
area.[57][58][59] Connected by the recently renovated Fifth Street Bridge, it
is a pedestrian-friendly area comprising Georgia Tech facilities and retail
locations.[57][60] One complex contains the College of Business Building,
holding classrooms and office space for the Scheller College of Business, as
well as the Georgia Tech Hotel and Conference Center and the Georgia Tech
Global Learning Center.[61] The Scheller College of Business is also home to
three large glass chandeliers made by Dale Chihuly. This is one of the few
locations of Chihuly's works found in the state of Georgia.

Another part of Tech Square, the privately owned Centergy One complex,
contains the Technology Square Research Building (TSRB), holding faculty and
graduate student offices for the College of Computing and the School of
Electrical and Computer Engineering, as well as the GVU Center, a
multidisciplinary technology research center.[57] The _Advanced Technology
Development Center_ (ATDC) is a science and business incubator, run by the
Georgia Institute of Technology, and is also headquartered in Technology
Square's Centergy One complex.

Other Georgia Tech-affiliated buildings in the area host the Center for
Quality Growth and Regional Development, the Georgia Tech Enterprise
Innovation Institute, the Advanced Technology Development Center, VentureLab,
and the Georgia Electronics Design Center. Technology Square also hosts a
variety of restaurants and businesses, including the headquarters of notable
consulting companies like Accenture and also including the official Institute
bookstore, a Barnes & Noble bookstore, and a Georgia Tech-themed Waffle
House.[58][62]

### Satellite campuses[edit]

See also: Georgia Tech Savannah and Georgia Tech Lorraine

In 1999, Georgia Tech began offering local degree programs to engineering
students in Southeast Georgia, and in 2003 established a physical campus in
Savannah, Georgia.[63] Until 2013, Georgia Tech Savannah offered undergraduate
and graduate programs in engineering in conjunction with Georgia Southern
University, South Georgia College, Armstrong Atlantic State University, and
Savannah State University.[64] The university further collaborated with the
National University of Singapore to set up The Logistics Institute–Asia
Pacific in Singapore.[64] The campus now serves the institute's hub for
professional and continuing education and is home to the regional offices of
the Georgia Tech Enterprise Innovation Institute, the Savannah Advanced
Technology Development Center, and the Georgia Logistics Innovation
Center.[65][66]

Georgia Tech Lorraine, Metz, France

Georgia Tech also operates a campus in Metz, in northeastern France, known as
Georgia Tech Lorraine. It was opened in October 1990, it offers master's-level
courses in Electrical and Computer Engineering, Computer Science and
Mechanical Engineering and Ph.D. coursework in Electrical and Computer
Engineering and Mechanical Engineering.[67] Georgia Tech Lorraine was the
defendant in a lawsuit pertaining to the language used in advertisements,
which was a violation of the Toubon Law _.[68][69]_

The College of Design (formerly College of Architecture) maintains a small
permanent presence in Paris in affiliation with the École d'architecture de
Paris-La Villette and the College of Computing has a similar program with the
Barcelona School of Informatics at the Polytechnic University of Catalonia in
Barcelona, Spain. There are additional programs in Athlone, Ireland, Shanghai,
China, and Singapore.[70][71] Georgia Tech was supposed set up two campuses
for research and graduate education in the cities of Visakhapatnam and
Hyderabad, Telangana, India by the year 2010, but it appears the plans have
been set on hold as of 2011.[72][73][74][75][76]

### Campus services[edit]

Georgia Tech Cable Network, or GTCN, is the college's branded cable source.
Most non-original programming is obtained from Dish Network. GTCN currently
has 100 standard-definition channels and 23 high-definition channels.[77]

The Office of Information Technology, or OIT, manages most of the Institute's
computing resources (and some related services such as campus telephones).
With the exception of a few computer labs maintained by individual colleges,
OIT is responsible for most of the computing facilities on campus. Student,
faculty, and staff e-mail accounts are among its services.[78] Georgia Tech's
ResNet provides free technical support to all students and guests living in
Georgia Tech's on-campus housing (excluding fraternities and sororities).
ResNet is responsible for network, telephone, and television service, and most
support is provided by part-time student employees.[79]

## Organization and administration[edit]

Klaus Advanced Computing Building, named for its benefactor, Chris Klaus

Georgia Tech's undergraduate and graduate programs are divided into six
colleges. Collaboration among the colleges is frequent, as mandated by a
number of interdisciplinary degree programs and research centers.[80] Georgia
Tech has sought to strengthen its undergraduate and graduate offerings in less
technical fields, primarily those under the Ivan Allen College of Liberal
Arts. That particular College has seen a 20% increase in admissions.[81] Also,
even in the Ivan Allen College, the Institute does not offer a Bachelor of
Arts degree, only a Bachelor of Science.

  * **College of Computing**
  * **College of Design**
  * **College of Engineering**

|  |

  * **College of Sciences**
  * **Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts**
  * **Scheller College of Business**

  
---|---|---  
  
##  Academics[edit]

### Demographics[edit]

_Demographics of Georgia Tech student body  
as of fall semester 2014[update]_ |  Undergraduate[82] | Graduate[83]  
---|---|---  
White | 52% | 40%  
Asian | 19% | 9%  
Black/African American | 6.4% | 4.3%  
Hispanic/Latino | 6.4% | 4.2%  
Native American | 0.1% | 0.1%  
Multiracial/Other | 3.6% | 1.9%  
International | 10.8% | 39.9%  
  
The student body consists of more than 25,000 graduate and undergraduate
students (Fall 2015) and around 1,140 full-time academic faculty (Fall
2015).[84][85][86] The student body at Georgia Tech is 65% male and 35% female
(Fall 2015).[87] Female enrollment has historically been low; however, this is
slowly changing due to the university's growing liberal arts programs and
outreach programs to encourage more female high school students to consider
careers in science and engineering as well as changes in the admissions
process. These include the "Women In Engineering" program and sponsorship of a
chapter of The Society of Women Engineers.[88][89] For the fall of 2014, over
40% of incoming freshmen were female students.[90]

Around 50–55% of all Georgia Tech students are residents of the state of
Georgia, around 20% come from overseas, and 25–30% are residents of other U.S.
states or territories. The top states of origin for all non-Georgia US
students are Florida, Texas, California, North Carolina, Virginia, New Jersey,
and Maryland.[91] Students at Tech represent 114 countries and all 50
states.[91][92]

### Funding[edit]

The Georgia Institute of Technology is a public institution that receives
funds from the State of Georgia, tuition, fees, research grants, and alumni
contributions. In 2014, the Institute's revenue amounted to about $1.422
billion. Fifteen percent came from state appropriations and grants while 20%
originated from tuition and fees. Grants and contracts accounted for 55% of
all revenue. Expenditures were about $1.36 billion. Forty-eight percent went
to research and 19% went to instruction.[93] The Georgia Tech Foundation runs
the university's endowment and was incorporated in 1932. It includes several
wholly owned subsidiaries that own land on campus or in Midtown and lease the
land back to the Georgia Board of Regents and other companies and
organizations. Assets totaled $1.882 billion and liabilities totaled $0.478
billion in 2014.[94] Georgia Tech has the most generous alumni donor base,
percentage wise, of any public university ranked in the top 50.[95] In 2015,
the university received a $30 million grant from Atlanta philanthropist Diana
Blank[96] to build the "most environmentally-sound building ever constructed
in the Southeast."[97]

### Rankings[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[98] |  43  
_Forbes_[99] |  81  
_U.S. News& World Report_[100] |  34  
_Washington Monthly_[101] |  31  
Global  
_ARWU_[102] |  85  
_QS_[103] |  70  
_Times_[104] |  33  
_U.S. News& World Report_[105] |  71  
  
Georgia Tech is consistently ranked among the best universities in the United
States and the world. For over a decade, Georgia Tech has remained in the top
ten public universities in the United States, and is currently listed as the
smartest public college in the United States.[106][107] In 2012, The Times
Higher Education World University Rankings ranked Georgia Tech 19th in the
United States and 25th in the world; its engineering program was ranked 9th in
the world in 2013.[108] As of 2016, Tech's undergraduate engineering program
is ranked 4th and its graduate engineering program is ranked 7th by _U.S.
News& World Report_.[109] Tech's undergraduate engineering programs include
aerospace (2nd), biomedical (1st), chemical (4th), civil (2nd), computer
(6th), electrical (4th), environmental (4th), industrial (1st), materials
(6th), and mechanical (2nd). Tech's graduate engineering programs include
aerospace (2nd), biomedical/bioengineering (2nd),[110][111] chemical (8th),
civil (4th), computer (6th), electrical (6th), environmental (5th), industrial
(1st), materials (8th), mechanical (6th), and nuclear (6th).[112]

In 2010, Georgia Tech's College of Business rose from 31st to 28th, continuing
its rapid upward trend.[113] _Diverse Issues in Higher Education_ has ranked
Tech No. 1 at the bachelor's level, No. 2 at the master's level, and No. 1 at
the doctoral level in terms of producing African American engineering
graduates.[86] In 2010, _U.S. News & World Report_ ranked Tech as the No. 28
MBA program.[114] Tech also boasts the No. 29 physics program in the
nation,[115] specializing in nonlinear dynamics (in which it ranks 5th
nationwide) and condensed matter physics.[116][117] _U.S. News & World Report_
ranked the graduate chemistry program at No. 26 overall with the physical
chemistry specialty ranked at No. 14.[118] The math department is ranked at
No. 30 overall and at No. 8 in discrete math and combinatorics.[119] Georgia
Tech ranks #9 among "Best Engineering Colleges By Salary Potential" in the
United States.[120] In 2015, Georgia Tech was ranked 2nd among public
universities and 8th among all universities in the United States for students'
return on investment.[121][122]

## Research[edit]

Main article: Georgia Tech Research Institute

See also: Georgia Institute of Technology Center for Robotics and Intelligent
Machines

The Centennial Research Building, one of the buildings of the Georgia Tech
Research Institute

Georgia Tech is classified by The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching as a university with very high research activity.[123] Much of this
research is funded by large corporations or governmental organizations.[124]
Research is organizationally under the Executive Vice President for Research,
Stephen E. Cross, who reports directly to the institute president.[125] Nine
"interdisciplinary research institutes" report to him, with all research
centers, laboratories and interdisciplinary research activities at Georgia
Tech reporting through one of those institutes.[126][127]

The oldest of those research institutes is a nonprofit research organization
referred to as the Georgia Tech Research Institute (GTRI).[128][129] GTRI
provides sponsored research in a variety of technical specialties including
radar, electro-optics, and materials engineering.[128] Around forty percent
(by award value) of Georgia Tech's research, especially government-funded
classified work, is conducted through this counterpart organization.[129][130]
GTRI employs over 1,700 people and had $305 million in revenue in fiscal year
2014.[131] The other institutes include: the Parker H. Petit Institute for
Bioengineering & Bioscience, the Georgia Tech Institute for Electronics and
Nanotechnology, the Georgia Tech Strategic Energy Institute, the Brook Byers
Institute for Sustainable Systems, the Georgia Tech Manufacturing Institute,
the Institute of Paper Science and Technology, Institute for Materials and the
Institute for People and Technology.[126]

Many startup companies are produced through research conducted at Georgia
Tech, with the Advanced Technology Development Center and VentureLab ready to
assist Georgia Tech's researchers and entrepreneurs in organization and
commercialization. The Georgia Tech Research Corporation serves as Georgia
Tech's contract and technology licensing agency. Georgia Tech is ranked fourth
for startup companies, eighth in patents, and eleventh in technology transfer
by the Milken Institute.[124][132] Georgia Tech and GTRI devote 1,900,000
square feet (180,000 m2) of space to research purposes,[124] including the new
$90 million Marcus Nanotechnology Building, one of the largest nanotechnology
research facilities in the Southeastern United States with over 30,000 square
feet (2,800 m2) of clean room space.[133][134][135]

Georgia Tech encourages undergraduates to participate in research alongside
graduate students and faculty. The Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Program awards scholarships each semester to undergraduates who pursue
research activities. These scholarships, called the President's Undergraduate
Research Awards, take the form of student salaries or help cover travel
expenses when students present their work at professional meetings.[136]
Additionally, undergraduates may participate in research and write a thesis to
earn a "Research Option" credit on their transcripts.[137] An undergraduate
research journal, _The Tower_ , was established in 2007 to provide
undergraduates with a venue for disseminating their research and a chance to
become familiar with the academic publishing process.[138]

Recent developments include a proposed graphene antenna.[139][140]

Georgia Tech and Emory University have a strong research partnership and
jointly administer the Emory-Georgia Tech Predictive Health Institute. They
also, along with Peking University, administer the Wallace H. Coulter
Department of Biomedical Engineering.[141][142] In 2015, Georgia Tech and
Emory were awarded an $8.3 million grant by the National Institutes of Health
(NIH) to establish a National Exposure Assessment Laboratory.[143] In July
2015, Georgia Tech, Emory, and Children's Healthcare of Atlanta were awarded a
four-year, 1.8 million dollar grant by the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation in order
to expand the Atlanta Cystic Fibrosis Research and Development Program.[144]
In 2015, the two universities received a five-year, $2.9 million grant from
the National Science Foundation (NSF) to create new bachelor's, master's, and
doctoral degree programs and concentrations in healthcare robotics, which will
be the first program of its kind in the Southeastern United States.[145]

The Georgia Tech Panama Logistics Innovation & Research Center is an
initiative between the H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems
Engineering, the Ecuador National Secretariat of Science and Technology, and
the government of Panama that aims to enhance Panama's logistics capabilities
and performance through a number of research and education initiatives.[146]
The center is creating models of country level logistics capabilities that
will support the decision-making process for future investments and trade
opportunities in the growing region [147] and has established dual degree
programs in the University of Panama and other Panamanian universities with
Georgia Tech.[148] A similar center in Singapore, The Centre for Next
Generation Logistics, was established in 2015 and is a collaboration between
Georgia Tech and the National University of Singapore. The Center will work
closely with government agencies and the industry to perform research in
logistics and supply chain systems for translation into innovations and
commercialization to achieve transformative economic and societal impact.[
_vague_ ][149]

### Industry connections[edit]

Georgia Tech maintains close ties to the industrial world. Many of these
connections are made through Georgia Tech's cooperative education and
internship programs. Georgia Tech's Division of Professional Practice (DoPP),
established in 1912 as the Georgia Institute of Technology Cooperative
Division,[150] operates the largest and fourth-oldest cooperative education
program in the United States, and is accredited by the Accreditation Council
for Cooperative Education.[151][152][153] The DoPP is charged with providing
opportunities for students to gain real-world employment experience through
four programs, each targeting a different body of students. The Undergraduate
Cooperative Education Program is a five-year program in which undergraduate
students alternate between semesters of formal instruction at Georgia Tech and
semesters of full-time employment with their employers.

The Graduate Cooperative Education Program, established in 1983, is the
largest such program in the United States.[154] It allows graduate students
pursuing master's degrees or doctorates in any field to spend a maximum of two
consecutive semesters working full- or part-time with employers. The
Undergraduate Professional Internship Program enables undergraduate
students—typically juniors or seniors—to complete a one- or two-semester
internship with employers. The Work Abroad Program hosts a variety of
cooperative education and internship experiences for upperclassmen and
graduate students seeking international employment and cross-cultural
experiences. While all four programs are voluntary, they consistently attract
high numbers of students—more than 3,000 at last count. Around 1,000
businesses and organizations hire these students, who collectively earn $20
million per year.[153]

Georgia Tech's cooperative education and internship programs have been
externally recognized for their strengths. The Undergraduate Cooperative
Education was recognized by _U.S. News & World Report_ as one of the top 10
"Programs that Really Work" for five consecutive years.[155] _U.S. News &
World Report_ additionally ranked Georgia Tech's internship and cooperative
education programs among 14 "Academic Programs to Look For" in 2006 and
2007.[95] On June 4, 2007, the University of Cincinnati inducted Georgia Tech
into its Cooperative Education Hall of Honor.[156][157]

## Student life[edit]

Tech Tower

Georgia Tech students benefit from many Institute-sponsored or -related events
on campus, as well as a wide selection of cultural options in the surrounding
district of Midtown Atlanta, "Atlanta's Heart of the Arts".[158] Just off
campus, students can choose from several restaurants, including a half-dozen
in Technology Square alone.[159][160] Home Park, a neighborhood that borders
the north end of campus, is a popular living area for Tech students and recent
graduates.[161][162]

### Traditions[edit]

Main article: Georgia Tech traditions

See also: Stealing the T and Clean, Old-Fashioned Hate

Georgia Tech has a number of legends and traditions, some of which have
persisted for decades. Some are well-known; for example, the most notable of
these is the popular but rare tradition of stealing the 'T' from Tech Tower.
Tech Tower, Tech's historic primary administrative building, has the letters
"TECH" hanging atop it on each of its four sides. There have been several
attempts by students to orchestrate complex plans to steal the huge symbolic
letter T, and on occasion they have carried this act out successfully. One of
the cherished holdovers from Tech's early years, a steam whistle blows five
minutes before the hour, every hour from 7:55 a.m. to 5:55 p.m.[163] The
faculty newspaper is named _The Whistle_.[53]

Georgia Tech students hold a heated, long and ongoing rivalry with the
University of Georgia, known as Clean, Old-Fashioned Hate. The first known
hostilities between the two institutions trace back to 1891. The University of
Georgia's literary magazine proclaimed UGA's colors to be "old gold, black,
and crimson". Dr. Charles H. Herty, then President of the University of
Georgia, felt that old gold was too similar to yellow and that it "symbolized
cowardice". After the 1893 football game against Tech, Herty removed old gold
as an official color.[164][165] Tech would first use old gold for their
uniforms, as a proverbial slap in the face to UGA, in their first unofficial
football game against Auburn in 1891.[166] Georgia Tech's school colors would
henceforth be old gold and white.

### Housing[edit]

See also: Georgia Tech main campus § Apartments and Residence Halls

Eighth Street Apartments are apartment-style residence halls that opened in
1995 as housing for the athletes and journalists at the 1996 Summer Olympics
as a part of the Olympic Village.

Georgia Tech Housing is subject to a clear geographic division of campus into
eastern and western areas that contain the vast majority of housing. East
Campus is largely populated by freshmen and is served by Brittain Dining Hall.
West Campus houses some freshmen, transfer, and returning students
(upperclassmen), and is served by Woodruff Dining Hall.[46][167] Graduate
students typically live off-campus (for example, in Home Park) or on-campus in
the Graduate Living Center or 10th and Home.[168]

The Institute's administration has implemented programs in an effort to reduce
the levels of stress and anxiety felt by Tech students. The Familiarization
and Adaptation to the Surroundings and Environs of Tech (FASET) Orientation
and Freshman Experience (a freshman-only dorm life program to "encourage
friendships and a feeling of social involvement") programs, which seek to help
acclimate new students to their surroundings and foster a greater sense of
community.[169][170] As a result, the Institute's retention rates
improved.[171]

In recent years as of 2011, Georgia Tech Housing has been at or over
capacity.[172] In Fall 2006, many dorms housed "triples", which was a project
that put three residents into a two-person room. Certain pieces of furniture
were not provided to the third resident as to accommodate a third bed. When
spaces became available in other parts of campus, the third resident was moved
elsewhere.[173][174][175][176] In 2013, Georgia Tech provided housing for
9,553 students, and housing was 98% occupied.[177]

In the fall of 2007, the North Avenue Apartments were opened to Tech students.
Originally built for the 1996 Olympics and belonging to Georgia State
University, the buildings were given to Georgia Tech and have been used to
accommodate Tech's expanding population. Georgia Tech freshmen students were
the first to inhabit the dormitories in the Winter and Spring 1996 quarters,
while much of East Campus was under renovation for the Olympics. The North
Avenue Apartments (commonly known as "North Ave") are also noted as the first
Georgia Tech buildings to rise above the top of Tech Tower. Open to second-
year undergraduate students and above, the buildings are located on East
Campus, across North Avenue and near Bobby Dodd Stadium, putting more
upperclassmen on East Campus.[47] Currently, the North Avenue Apartments East
and North buildings are undergoing extensive renovation to the façade. During
their construction, the bricks were not properly secured and thus were a
safety hazard to pedestrians and vehicles on the Downtown Connector
below.[178]

Two programs on campus as well have houses on East Campus: the International
House (commonly referred to as the I-House); and Women, Science, and
Technology. The I-House is housed in 4th Street East and Hayes. Women,
Science, and Technology is housed in Goldin and Stein. The I-House hosts an
International Coffee Hour every Monday night that class is in session from 6
to 7 pm, hosting both residents and their guests for discussions.[179]

Single graduate students may live in the Graduate Living Center (GLC) or at
10th and Home.[180] 10th and Home is the designated family housing unit of
Georgia Tech.[181] Residents are zoned to Atlanta Public Schools.[182]
Residents are zoned to Centennial Place Elementary,[183] Inman Middle
School,[184] and Grady High School.[185]

### Student clubs and activities[edit]

Several extracurricular activities are available to students, including over
350 student organizations overseen by the Office of Student Involvement.[186]
The Student Government Association (SGA), Georgia Tech's student government,
has separate executive, legislative, and judicial branches for undergraduate
and graduate students.[187] One of the SGA's primary duties is the
disbursement of funds to student organizations in need of financial
assistance. These funds are derived from the Student Activity Fee that all
Georgia Tech students must pay, currently $123 per semester. The ANAK Society,
a secret society and honor society established at Georgia Tech in 1908, claims
responsibility for founding many of Georgia Tech's earliest traditions and
oldest student organizations, including the SGA.[188]

### Arts[edit]

See also: Georgia Tech Glee Club, Georgia Tech Yellow Jacket Marching Band,
and Ferst Center for the Arts

Georgia Tech's Music Department was established as part of the school's
General College in 1963 under the leadership of Ben Logan Sisk. In 1976, the
Music Department was assigned to the College of Sciences & Liberal Studies,
and in 1991 it was relocated to its current home in the College of Design. In
2009, it was reorganized into the School of Music.[189] The Georgia Tech Glee
Club, founded in 1906, is one of the oldest student organizations on campus,
and still operates today as part of the School of Music.[190][191] The Glee
Club was among the first collegiate choral groups to release a recording of
their songs. The group has toured extensively and appeared on _The Ed Sullivan
Show_ twice, providing worldwide exposure to "Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia
Tech".[192][193] Today, the modern Glee Club performs dozens of times each
semester for many different events, including official Georgia Tech
ceremonies, banquets, and sporting events. It consists of 50 to 70  members
and requires no audition or previous choral experience.[194]

Bobby Dodd Stadium at Historic Grant Field, home of the Georgia Tech Yellow
Jackets football team

The Georgia Tech Band Program, also in the School of Music, represents Georgia
Tech at athletic events and provides Tech students with a musical outlet.[195]
It was founded in 1908 by 14 students and Robert "Biddy" Bidez.[191] The
marching band consistently fields over 300 members and invites students from
other Atlanta universities who do not have football programs (Emory, Agnes
Scott, etc.) to participate. Members of the marching band travel to every
football game.

The School of Music is also home to a number of ensembles, such as the
80-to-90-member Symphony Orchestra,[196] Jazz Ensemble,[197] Concert
Band,[198] and Percussion and MIDI Ensembles.[191][199] Students also can opt
to form their own small Chamber Ensembles, either for course credit or
independently.[200] The contemporary Sonic Generator group, backed by the GVU
and in collaboration with the Center for Music Technology, performs a diverse
lineup of music featuring new technologies and recent composers.[201]

Georgia Tech also has a music scene that is made up of groups that operate
independently from the Music Department. These groups include four student-led
a cappella groups: Nothin' but Treble,[202] Sympathetic Vibrations,[203] Taal
Tadka,[204] and Infinite Harmony.[205] Musician's Network, another student-led
group, operates Under the Couch, a live music venue and recording facility
that was formerly located beneath the Couch Building on West Campus and is now
located in the Student Center.[206][207]

Many music, theatre, dance, and opera performances are held in the Ferst
Center for the Arts.[208] DramaTech is the campus' student-run theater. The
theater has been entertaining Georgia Tech and the surrounding community since
1947. They are also home to Let's Try This! (the campus improv troupe) and
VarietyTech (a song and dance troupe). Momocon is an annual
anime/gaming/comics convention held on campus in March hosted by Anime
O-Tekku, the Georgia Tech anime club. The convention has free admission and
was held in the Student Center, Instructional Center, and surrounding outdoor
areas until 2010.[209] Beginning in 2011, the convention moved its venue to
locations in Technology Square.[210]

### Student media[edit]

The front page of the first issue of _The Technique_

WREK is Georgia Tech's student run radio station. Broadcast at 91.1 MHz on the
FM band the station is known as "Wrek Radio". The studio is on the second
floor of the Student Center Commons. Broadcasting with 100 kW ERP, WREK is
among the nation's most powerful college radio stations.[211][212] WREK is a
student operated and run radio station. In April 2007, a debate was held
regarding the future of the radio station. The prospective purchasers were GPB
and NPR. WREK maintained its independence after dismissing the notion with
approval from the Radio Communications Board of Georgia Tech.[213][214][215]
The Georgia Tech Amateur Radio Club, founded in 1912, is among the oldest
collegiate amateur radio clubs in the nation. The club provided emergency
radio communications during several disasters including numerous hurricanes
and the 1985 Mexico earthquake.[216]

_The Technique_ , also known as the "' _Nique_ ", is Tech's official student
newspaper. It is distributed weekly during the Fall and Spring semesters (on
Fridays), and biweekly during the Summer semester (with certain exceptions).
It was established on November 17, 1911. _Blueprint_ is Tech's yearbook,
established in 1908.[217] Other student publications include _The North Avenue
Review_ , Tech's "free-speech magazine",[218][219] _Erato_ , Tech's literary
magazine,[220] _The Tower_ , Tech's undergraduate research journal[221] and
_T-Book_ , the student handbook detailing Tech traditions.[222] The offices of
all student publications are located in the Student Services
Building.[217][223]

### Greek life[edit]

See also: List of Fraternities and Sororities at Georgia Institute of
Technology

1910 Georgia Tech Blueprint – Fraternities Page 05

Greek life at Georgia Tech includes over 50 active chapters of social
fraternities and sororities.[224] All of the groups are chapters of national
organizations, including members of the North-American Interfraternity
Conference, National Panhellenic Conference, and National Pan-Hellenic
Council. The first fraternity to establish a chapter at Georgia Tech was Alpha
Tau Omega in 1888, before the school held its first classes. The first
sorority to establish a chapter was Alpha Xi Delta in 1954.[224] Students with
Greek affiliation make up around 26 percent of the undergraduate student
body.[225]

### Student stress[edit]

Georgia Tech carries a strong reputation for being difficult. In 2001, _The
Princeton Review_ placed Tech among the 10 toughest colleges and universities
in the United States[226] and later reported that Tech's heavy workload led to
"overly stressed" students with "minimal time for social functions".[227] In
2010, _The Daily Beast_ included Tech on its list of the 50 most stressful
colleges and universities in the U.S.[228] However, in 2010, the Daily Beast
also listed Tech among the 100 happiest colleges indicating that student
stress does not necessarily prevent student happiness.[229] Among students, it
is widely believed that a sacrifice of sleep, studying, or a social life
defines "the Tech lifestyle".[230] For these reasons, students commonly refer
to graduation from Tech as "getting out".[53]

##  Athletics[edit]

Main article: Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets

Buzz, the Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets' mascot

Barack Obama at Georgia Tech, 2015

Georgia Tech teams are variously known as the Yellow Jackets, the Ramblin'
Wreck and the Engineers; but the official nickname is _Yellow Jackets_. They
compete as a member of the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA)
Division I level (Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) sub-level for football),
primarily competing in the Atlantic Coast Conference (ACC) for all sports
since the 1979–80 season (a year after they officially joined the conference
before beginning conference play),[231] Coastal Division in any sports split
into a divisional format since the 2005–06 season. The Yellow Jackets
previously competed as a charter member of the Metro Conference from 1975–76
to 1977–78,[231] as a charter member of the Southeastern Conference (SEC) from
1932–33 to 1963–64,[232] as a charter of the Southern Conference (SoCon) from
1921–22 to 1931–32, and as a charter member of the Southern Intercollegiate
Athletic Association (SIAA) from 1895–96 to 1920–21. They also competed as an
Independent from 1964–65 to 1974–75 and on the 1978–79 season. Men's sports
include baseball, basketball, cross country, football, golf, swimming &
diving, tennis and track & field; while women's sports include basketball,
cross country, softball, swimming and diving, tennis, track & field and
volleyball.

The Institute mascots are Buzz and the Ramblin' Wreck. The Institute's
traditional football rival is the University of Georgia; the rivalry is
considered one of the fiercest in college football. The rivalry is commonly
referred to as Clean, Old-Fashioned Hate, which is also the title of a book
about the subject.[233] Tech has seventeen varsity sports: football, women's
and men's basketball, baseball, softball, volleyball, golf, men's and women's
tennis, men's and women's swimming and diving, men's and women's track and
field, and men's and women's cross country. Four Georgia Tech football teams
were selected as national champions in news polls: 1917, 1928, 1952, and 1990.
In May 2007, the women's tennis team won the NCAA National Championship with a
4–2 victory over UCLA, the first ever national title granted by the NCAA to
Tech.[234][235]

### Fight songs[edit]

Tech's fight song "I'm a Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech" is known
worldwide.[192] First published in the 1908 _Blue Print_,[236] it was adapted
from an old drinking song ("Son of a Gambolier")[236] and embellished with
trumpet flourishes by Frank Roman.[237] Then-Vice President Richard Nixon and
Soviet Premier Nikita Khrushchev sang the song together when they met in
Moscow in 1958 to reduce the tension between them.[236][238] As the story
goes, Nixon did not know any Russian songs, but Khrushchev knew that one
American song as it had been sung on _The Ed Sullivan Show_.[236]

Georgia Institute of Technology Ramblin' Wreck and Cheerleaders

"I'm a Ramblin' Wreck" has had many other notable moments in its history. It
is reportedly the first school song to have been played in space.[239] Gregory
Peck sang the song while strumming a ukulele in the movie _The Man in the Gray
Flannel Suit_. John Wayne whistled it in _The High and the Mighty_. Tim Holt's
character sings a few bars of it in the movie _His Kind of Woman_. There are
numerous stories of commanding officers in Higgins boats crossing the English
Channel on the morning of D-Day leading their men in the song to calm their
nerves.[239] It is played after every Georgia Tech score in a football
game.[236]

Another popular fight song is "Up With the White and Gold", which is usually
played by the band preceding "Ramblin' Wreck". First published in 1919, "Up
with the White and Gold" was also written by Frank Roman. The song's title
refers to Georgia Tech's school colors and its lyrics contain the phrase,
"Down with the Red and Black", an explicit reference to the school colors of
the University of Georgia and the then-budding Georgia Tech–UGA
rivalry.[239][240]

### Club sports[edit]

Georgia Tech participates in many non-NCAA sanctioned club sports, including
airsoft, crew, cricket, cycling (winning three consecutive Dirty South
Collegiate Cycling Conference mountain bike championships), disc golf,
equestrian, fencing, field hockey, gymnastics, ice hockey, kayaking, lacrosse,
paintball, roller hockey, soccer, rugby union, sailing, skydiving, swimming,
table tennis, triathlon, ultimate, water polo, water ski, and wrestling. Many
club sports take place at the Georgia Tech Aquatic Center, where swimming,
diving, water polo, and the swimming portion of the modern pentathlon
competitions for the 1996 Summer Olympics were held.[241]

## Alumni[edit]

Main articles: List of Georgia Institute of Technology alumni and List of
Georgia Institute of Technology athletes

Georgia Tech's first two graduates were H.L. Smith (top row, center) and G.C.
Crawford (top row, far right).

There are many notable graduates, non-graduate former students and current
students of Georgia Tech. Georgia Tech alumni are known as Yellow Jackets.
According to the Georgia Tech Alumni Association:[242]

> [the status of "alumni"] is open to all graduates of Georgia Tech, all
former students of Georgia Tech who regularly matriculated and left Georgia
Tech in good standing, active and retired members of the faculty and
administration staff, and those who have rendered some special and conspicuous
service to Georgia Tech or to [the alumni association].

The first class of 95 students entered Georgia Tech in 1888,[243] and the
first two graduates received their degrees in 1890.[244] Since then, the
institute has greatly expanded, with an enrollment of 14,558 undergraduates
and 6,913 postgraduate students as of Fall 2013[update].[245]

Many distinguished individuals once called Georgia Tech home, the most notable
being Jimmy Carter, former President of the United States and Nobel Peace
Prize winner, who briefly attended Georgia Tech in the early 1940s before
matriculating at and graduating from the United States Naval Academy.[246]
Juan Carlos Varela, a 1985 industrial engineering graduate, was elected
president of Panama in May 2014.[247] Another Georgia Tech graduate and Nobel
Prize winner, Kary Mullis, received the Nobel Prize in Chemistry in 1993.[248]
A large number of businesspeople (including but not limited to prominent CEOs
and directors) began their careers at Georgia Tech.[249][250] Some of the most
successful of these are Charles "Garry" Betty (CEO Earthlink),[251] David
Dorman (CEO AT&T Corporation),[250] Mike Duke (CEO Wal-Mart),[252] and James
D. Robinson III (CEO American Express and later director of The Coca-Cola
Company).[253]

Tech graduates have been deeply influential in politics, military service, and
activism. Atlanta mayor Ivan Allen, Jr. and former United States Senator Sam
Nunn have both made significant changes from within their elected
offices.[254][255] Former Georgia Tech president G. Wayne Clough was also a
Tech graduate, the first Tech alumnus to serve in that position.[256] Many
notable military commanders are alumni; James A. Winnefeld, Jr. who currently
serves as the ninth Vice Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Philip M.
Breedlove who currently serves as the Commander, U.S. Air Forces in Europe,
William L. Ball was the 67th Secretary of the Navy,[257] John M. Brown III is
the Commander of the United States Army Pacific Command,[258] and Leonard Wood
was Chief of Staff of the Army and a Medal of Honor recipient for helping
capture of the Apache chief Geronimo.[259] Wood was also Tech's first football
coach and (simultaneously) the team captain, and was instrumental in Tech's
first-ever football victory in a game against the University of Georgia.[259]
Thomas McGuire was the second-highest scoring American ace during World War II
and a Medal of Honor recipient.[260]

Numerous astronauts and National Aeronautics and Space Administration (NASA)
administrators spent time at Tech; most notably, Retired Vice Admiral Richard
H. Truly was the eighth administrator of NASA, and later served as the
president of the Georgia Tech Research Institute.[261] John Young walked on
the moon as the commander of Apollo 16, first commander of the space shuttle
and is the only person to have piloted four different classes of
spacecraft.[262] Georgia Tech has its fair share of noteworthy engineers,
scientists, and inventors. Nobel Laureate Kary Mullis developed the polymerase
chain reaction,[248] Herbert Saffir developed the Saffir-Simpson Hurricane
Scale,[263] and W. Jason Morgan made significant contributions to the theory
of plate tectonics and geodynamics.[264] In computer science, Krishna Bharat
developed Google News,[265] and D. Richard Hipp developed SQLite.[266]
Architect Michael Arad designed the World Trade Center Memorial in New York
City.[267]

Despite their highly technical backgrounds, Tech graduates are no strangers to
the arts or athletic competition. Among them, comedian/actor Jeff Foxworthy of
Blue Collar Comedy Tour fame and Randolph Scott both called Tech
home.[268][269] Several famous athletes have, as well; about 150 Tech students
have gone into the National Football League (NFL),[270] with many others going
into the National Basketball Association (NBA) or Major League Baseball
(MLB).[271][272] Well-known American football athletes include all-time greats
such as Joe Hamilton,[273] Pat Swilling,[274] Billy Shaw,[270] and Joe
Guyon,[270] former Tech head football coaches Pepper Rodgers and Bill
Fulcher,[270][274] and recent students such as Calvin Johnson and Tashard
Choice.[275][276] Some of Tech's recent entrants into the NBA include Chris
Bosh, Derrick Favors, Thaddeus Young,[277] Jarrett Jack,[278] and Iman
Shumpert. Award-winning baseball stars include Kevin Brown,[272] Mark
Teixeira,[279] Nomar Garciaparra,[272] and Jason Varitek.[280] In golf, Tech
alumni include the legendary Bobby Jones, who founded The Masters, and David
Duval, who was ranked the No. 1 golfer in the world in 1999.[281]

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "A Walk Through Tech's History". _Georgia Tech Alumni Magazine Online_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original on May 24, 2007. Retrieved  January 29, 2007. 
  2. **^** As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Administration & Faculty". _Georgia Tech Fact Book_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on December 9, 2016. Retrieved  January 12, 2017. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Enrollment By Campus Type – As of November 12, 2017". Georgia Tech Institutional Research and Planning. Retrieved  February 21, 2017. 
  5. **^** "2004 Campus Master Plan Update" (PDF). _Georgia Tech Capital Planning & Space Management_. Georgia Institute of Technology. November 2004. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 29, 2012. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Official Georgia Tech Colors". Retrieved  September 8, 2017. 
  7. **^** _U.S. News & World Report_, National Universities, Top Public Schools 2015 Archived March 3, 2016, at the Wayback Machine.. Retrieved February 6, 2016.
  8. **^** Wai, Jonathan; Goudreau, Jenna (September 30, 2015). "The 105 Smartest Public Colleges In America". Business Insider Inc. 
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "The Hopkins Administration, 1888–1895". _"A Thousand Wheels are set in Motion": The Building of Georgia Tech at the Turn of the 20th Century, 1888–1908_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  December 30, 2006. 
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering" (PDF). The American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Archived from the original (PDF) on June 15, 2007. Retrieved April 22, 2007. 
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Brittain, James E.; Robert C. McMath, Jr. (April 1977). "Engineers and the New South Creed: The Formation and Early Development of Georgia Tech". _Technology and Culture_. Johns Hopkins University Press. **18** (2): 175–201. doi:10.2307/3103955. JSTOR 3103955.  
  12. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology Historical Marker". Historic Markers Across Georgia. Retrieved  December 22, 2013. 
  13. **^** Lenz, Richard J. (November 2002). "Surrender Marker, Fort Hood, Change of Command Marker". _The Civil War in Georgia, An Illustrated Travelers Guide_. Sherpa Guides. Retrieved  December 30, 2006. 
  14. **^** Selman, Sean (March 27, 2002). "Presidential Tour of Campus Not the First for the Institute". _A Presidential Visit to Georgia Tech_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on February 2, 2008. Retrieved  December 30, 2006. 
  15. **^** "One Hundred Years Ago Was Eventful Year at Tech". _BuzzWords_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. October 1, 2005. Archived from the original on October 14, 2007. Retrieved  December 30, 2006. 
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ "Tech Timeline". Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original on December 23, 2006. Retrieved  March 27, 2007. 
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Underground Degrees". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. 1997. Archived from the original on February 23, 2005. Retrieved  March 15, 2007. 
  18. **^** "History of Georgia State University". Georgia State University Library. October 6, 2003. Retrieved  March 15, 2007. 
  19. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ McMath, Robert C.; Ronald H. Bayor; James E. Brittain; Lawrence Foster; August W. Giebelhaus; Germaine M. Reed (1985). _Engineering the New South: Georgia Tech 1885–1985_. Athens, GA: University of Georgia Press. ISBN 0-8203-0784-X.  
  20. **^** Combes, Richard (1992). "Origins of Industrial Extension: A Historical Case Study" (PDF). School of Public Policy, Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 1, 2006. Retrieved May 28, 2007. 
  21. **^** "History & Traditions". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Terraso, David (March 21, 2003). "Georgia Tech Celebrates 50 Years of Women". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved February 25, 2011. 
  23. **^** "The Fulbright Program in Russia | Rena Faye Norby". Fulbright.ru. Retrieved  December 5, 2012. 
  24. **^** "Facts and Figures: Enrollment by Gender". Georgia Tech Office of Institutional Research & Planning. Archived from the original on July 19, 2011. Retrieved  July 18, 2009. 
  25. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Edwards, Pat (September 10, 1999). "Being new to Tech was not always so easy". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on May 5, 2006. Retrieved  April 10, 2007. 
  26. **^** "Finding Aid for University of Georgia Integration Materials 1938–1965". University Archives. Retrieved  February 17, 2013. 
  27. **^** "Georgia Tech is Nation's No. 1 Producer of African-American Engineers in the Nation" (Press release). Georgia Institute of Technology. September 13, 2001. Archived from the original on January 15, 2003. Retrieved  November 13, 2006. 
  28. **^** "Desegregation of Higher Education". New Georgia Encyclopedia. Retrieved  February 27, 2013. 
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Joshi, Nikhil (March 10, 2006). "Geibelhaus lectures on controversial president". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  January 29, 2007. There was controversy in every step. Management fought this, because they were the big losers... Crecine was under fire. 
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gray, J.R. (February 6, 1998). "Get over headtrip, Management". _The Technique_. Retrieved  May 20, 2007. 
  31. **^** Susan Simmons (2000). "Analysis of the 1996 Summer Games on Real Estate Markets in Atlanta" (PDF). MIT Center for Real Estate. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 25, 2009. Retrieved July 29, 2009. 
  32. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Touring the Olympic Village". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. 1995. Archived from the original on August 11, 2011. Retrieved  May 21, 2007. 
  33. **^** Joshi, Nikhil (March 4, 2005). "International plan takes root". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  34. **^** Chen, Inn Inn (September 23, 2005). "Research, International Plan Fair hits Skiles Walkway". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on August 24, 2007. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  35. **^** Nagel, Matthew (January 26, 2010). "Georgia Tech Recognized For International Efforts". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved January 28, 2010. 
  36. **^** Pogrebin, Robin (March 16, 2008). "Georgia Tech President to lead Smithsonian". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  37. **^** "Gary Schuster named Georgia Tech Interim President". _Georgia Tech News Release_. April 8, 2008. Archived from the original on April 8, 2008. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  38. **^** "Peterson Named President of Georgia Institute of Technology" (Press release). University System of Georgia. February 25, 2009. Retrieved  July 30, 2014. 
  39. **^** "AAU Adds Georgia Tech As A Member". _AAU News Release_. April 21, 2010. Archived from the original on May 26, 2010. Retrieved  April 21, 2010. 
  40. **^** "Georgia Tech, Udacity Shock Higher Ed With $7,000 Degree". _Forbes_. Retrieved  May 15, 2013. 
  41. **^** "Proving Grounds for a New Model for Higher Education". _Huffington Post_. Retrieved  September 29, 2014. 
  42. **^** "The $7,000 Computer Science Degree — and the Future of Higher Education". _Time_. Retrieved  May 21, 2013. 
  43. **^** "Georgia student Scout Schultz shot dead by Atlanta police". _BBC News_. September 18, 2017. Retrieved  September 18, 2017. 
  44. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "Campus Map". Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Retrieved  October 18, 2007. 
  45. **^** "Tech Virtual Tour". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  October 18, 2007. 
  46. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Dedication of Renovated Brittain Dining Hall Notes". Georgia Tech Library. October 19, 2001. Retrieved  July 18, 2009. 
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Tabita, Craig (March 9, 2007). "Tech acquires Ga. State dorms". _The Technique_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on December 24, 2007. Retrieved  June 14, 2008. 
  48. **^** "About the School". Georgia Tech School of Modern Languages. Retrieved  July 27, 2009. [ _dead link_ ]
  49. **^** "Swann Dormitory (1901)". _A Thousand Wheels are set in Motion_. Georgia Tech Library and Information Center. Retrieved  July 27, 2009. 
  50. **^** Kumar, Neeraj (September 22, 2000). "New construction on the Hill recreates historic appearance near Tech Tower". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  51. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology Historic District". National Park Service Atlanta. Retrieved  May 26, 2007. 
  52. **^** "Tech Rec". _Fun On Every Floor_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on August 22, 2007. Retrieved  August 23, 2007. 
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "You certainly won't find these in Webster's.." _The Technique_. August 20, 2004. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  May 20, 2007. 
  54. **^** "Campus Master Plan". Georgia Tech Capital Planning & Space Management. 2004. Archived from the original on April 25, 2011. Retrieved  August 22, 2007. 
  55. **^** Narayanan, Vijay (August 18, 2011). "Clough Commons set to open". _The Technique_. Retrieved  September 9, 2011. 
  56. **^** "Technology Square". Georgia Tech Office of Development. Archived from the original on February 13, 2008. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. 
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Georgia Tech Reconnects, Renews Section of Atlanta Business District with Technology Square" (Press release). Georgia Institute of Technology. October 20, 2003. Archived from the original on March 18, 2012. Retrieved  July 31, 2009. 
  58. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ TVS (January 1, 2006). "Georgia Tech's Technology Square". RevitalizationOnline. Archived from the original on May 11, 2008. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. 
  59. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology – Technology Square, LEED NC Silver". TVS. Archived from the original on May 15, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  60. **^** Stephenson, James (January 19, 2007). "Renovated Fifth Street Bridge opens". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  March 25, 2007. 
  61. **^** Subramanian, Arjun (June 13, 2003). "Management prepares for Tech Square move". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  August 3, 2009. 
  62. **^** Fan, Vivian (February 11, 2010). "Auxiliary Services, Waffle House break ground". _The Technique_. Retrieved  September 11, 2014. 
  63. **^** "Georgia Tech, SEDA to Break Ground For New GTREP Campus in Savannah" (Press release). Georgia Institute of Technology. June 10, 2002. Archived from the original on April 2, 2003. Retrieved  August 12, 2007. 
  64. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dykes, Jennifer (October 15, 1999). "Clough addresses Institute". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  May 22, 2007. 
  65. **^** "About Georgia Tech-Savannah". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on July 19, 2013. Retrieved  August 21, 2013. 
  66. **^** "Georgia Tech Opens Campus in Savannah" (Press release). Georgia Institute of Technology. October 14, 2003. Archived from the original on September 16, 2006. Retrieved  August 12, 2007. 
  67. **^** "About Georgia Tech Lorraine". Georgia Tech Lorraine. Archived from the original on July 24, 2009. Retrieved  January 29, 2007. 
  68. **^** "Francophones Sue Net Site". _The New York Times_. January 6, 1997. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  69. **^** "French Purists Lose Their Cases". _The New York Times_. June 10, 1997. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  70. **^** "Campuses & Global Reach". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on October 16, 2010. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  71. **^** "Paris Program". Georgia Tech College of Architecture. Archived from the original on June 12, 2008. Retrieved  July 27, 2009. 
  72. **^** "A Look Back / A Look Forward". Georgia Tech College of Engineering. August 2007. Archived from the original on May 17, 2008. Retrieved  June 2, 2008. 
  73. **^** Lakshman, Ganesh S (January 13, 2008). "Georgia Tech plans SEZ". The Times of India. Retrieved June 2, 2008. 
  74. **^** "Georgia Tech to set up campus in Hyderabad". _Indo-Asian News Service_. Pragati Infosoft. June 6, 2007. Retrieved  June 2, 2008. 
  75. **^** Hoover, Kent (August 5, 2007). "U.S. universities expand overseas efforts to keep global edge". _MSNBC_. Archived from the original on November 9, 2014. Retrieved  August 9, 2007. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  76. **^** "Georgia Tech varsity campuses in AP may remain only on paper". _Times of India_. May 11, 2011. Retrieved  October 21, 2017. 
  77. **^** "Channel Lineup". Georgia Tech Cable Network. Archived from the original on May 17, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  78. **^** "OIT Home Page". Georgia Tech Office of Information Technology. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  79. **^** "ResNet". Georgia Tech ResNet. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  80. **^** "2006 General Catalog: Interdisciplinary Programs". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on January 27, 2008. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  81. **^** "Annual Report". Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. Archived from the original on January 1, 2008. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  82. **^** "Undergraduate Enrollment by College, Ethnicity, and Gender, Fall Semester 2014". _Georgia Tech Factbook_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  August 19, 2015. 
  83. **^** "Graduate Enrollment by College, Ethnicity, and Gender, Fall Semester 2014". _Georgia Tech Factbook_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  August 19, 2015. [ _dead link_ ]
  84. **^** "Administration & Faculty". _Georgia Tech Fact Book_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on March 22, 2014. Retrieved  March 21, 2014. 
  85. **^** "Full-time Teaching Faculty Distribution by College, as of October 2009". Georgia Tech Factbook. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Facts and Figures". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  87. **^** http://factbook.gatech.edu/admissions-and-enrollment/class-enrollment-by-gender-ethnicity-table-4-18/
  88. **^** "Women in Engineering at Georgia Tech". Georgia Tech College of Engineering. Archived from the original on June 30, 2007. Retrieved  October 9, 2007. 
  89. **^** "Welcome!". Georgia Tech Society of Women Engineers. Archived from the original on August 28, 2008. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  90. **^** "Class Enrollment by Gender & Ethnicity". Georgia Institute of Technology Office of Undergraduate Admissions. Retrieved  July 6, 2015. 
  91. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Enrollment by State – Table 4.12". _Georgia Tech Fact Book_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  March 21, 2014. 
  92. **^** "Enrollment by Country Table 4.11". _Georgia Tech Fact Book_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  March 21, 2014. 
  93. **^** "GT Actual Expenditures by Program". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  July 6, 2015. 
  94. **^** "Georgia Tech Foundation, Inc. Consolidated Financial Statements 2014 and 2013" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on October 10, 2015. Retrieved July 6, 2015. 
  95. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Tech Receives Highest U.S. News Ranking Ever" (Press release). Georgia Institute of Technology. August 17, 2007. Archived from the original on September 20, 2008. Retrieved  June 18, 2009. 
  96. **^** Atlanta Business Journals: "A longtime anonymous donor reveals her identity" by Maria Saporta September 18, 2015
  97. **^** Atlanta Business Journals: "Atlanta to join cutting edge of ‘net zero’ buildings" by Maria Saporta September 18, 2015
  98. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  99. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  100. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  101. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  102. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  103. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  104. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  105. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  106. **^** "Georgia Tech ranked seventh nationally among public universities for undergraduates" (Press release). Georgia Institute of Technology. August 21, 2008. Archived from the original on January 14, 2009. Retrieved  September 11, 2008. 
  107. **^** Smartest Public Colleges in America 2014
  108. **^** Top 50 engineering & technology universities. Times Higher Education (October 4, 2012). Retrieved on 2014-02-21.
  109. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology: U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings". U.S. News and World Report. 2016. Retrieved  November 14, 2016. 
  110. **^** "Biomedical Engineering at GA Tech". Retrieved  May 7, 2014. 
  111. **^** "Bioengineering — Georgia Tech". Retrieved  May 7, 2014. 
  112. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology, Overall Rankings, US News". Retrieved  November 14, 2016. 
  113. **^** "GEORGIA TECH'S U.S. NEWS RANKINGS REMAIN STRONG". Georgia Tech News. Retrieved  August 17, 2010. 
  114. **^** "Rankings: Best Business Schools". U.S. News and World Report. 2009. Archived from the original on March 4, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  115. **^** "Best Grad Schools". US News. 2014.  
  116. **^** "Rankings: Best Physics Schools". U.S. News and World Report. 2009. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  117. **^** "Rankings: Rankings of Physics Programs in Nonlinear Dynamics/Chaos". U.S. News and World Report. 1999. Retrieved  February 26, 2010. 
  118. **^** "Rankings: Best Chemistry Schools". U.S. News and World Report. 2010. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  119. **^** "Rankings: Rankings of Math Programs in Discrete Mathematics". U.S. News and World Report. 2010. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  120. **^** Best Engineering Schools – 2013 – 2014 College Salary Report. Payscale.com. Retrieved on February 21, 2014.
  121. **^** _Graduates of These Colleges Make the Most Money_, Time, 2015 , retrieved March 5, 2015 
  122. **^** _Georgia Tech among top colleges for student return on investment_, Atlanta Journal-Constitution, 2015 , retrieved March 5, 2015 
  123. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology – Main Campus". _Carnegie Classifications_. Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  124. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Research: Research Scope". _Georgia Tech Factbook_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  125. **^** "Executive Vice President for Research (EVPR)". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on December 2, 2012. Retrieved  April 20, 2013. 
  126. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Interdisciplinary Research Institutes". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on April 2, 2013. Retrieved  April 20, 2013. 
  127. **^** Maderer, Jason (June 24, 2013). "Georgia Tech Launches New Institute For Materials". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved June 24, 2013. 
  128. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "2006 GTRI Annual Report" (PDF). Georgia Tech Research Institute. Retrieved April 3, 2007. 
  129. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Georgia Tech Research Institute". _Georgia Tech Fact Book_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  August 24, 2010. 
  130. **^** "Awards Summary by Unit, Fiscal Years 2005–2009". _Georgia Tech Factbook_. Georgia Institute of Technology. 2010. Retrieved  August 24, 2010. 
  131. **^** "GTRI 2014 Annual Report" (PDF). Georgia Tech Research Institute. 2014. Retrieved July 6, 2015. 
  132. **^** DeVol, Ross; Armen Bedroussian; Anna Babayan; Meggy Frye; Daniela Murphy; Tomas J. Philipson; Lorna Wallace; Perry Wong; Benjamin Yeo (September 20, 2006). "Mind to Market: A Global Analysis of University Biotechnology Transfer and Commercialization". Milken Institute. 
  133. **^** "Nanotechnology Research Center Building". Georgia Tech Capital Projects. Archived from the original on January 29, 2008. Retrieved  March 6, 2007. 
  134. **^** "Marcus Nanotechnology Building Formally Dedicated" (Press release). Georgia Institute of Technology. April 23, 2009. Archived from the original on July 7, 2009. Retrieved  August 9, 2009. 
  135. **^** Markiewicz, David (April 29, 2009). "Nanotechnology building opens at Georgia Tech". _The Atlanta Journal-Constitution_. Archived from the original on June 4, 2011. Retrieved  August 9, 2009. 
  136. **^** "President's Undergraduate Research Awards (PURA)". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on December 25, 2007. Retrieved  February 3, 2008. 
  137. **^** "Research Option". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on December 14, 2007. Retrieved  February 3, 2008. 
  138. **^** Kent, Julie (November 30, 2007). "Tech's first research journal begins submission process". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on December 31, 2007. Retrieved  January 2, 2008. 
  139. **^** Talbot, David (March 5, 2013). "Graphene Antennas Would Enable Terabit Wireless Downloads". _Technology Review_. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Retrieved  March 8, 2013. 
  140. **^** Coldewey, Devin (March 6, 2013). "Graphene antenna could increase wireless speed 100 times". _NBC News_. Archived from the original on March 7, 2013. Retrieved  March 8, 2013. 
  141. **^** "Georgia Tech / Emory / Peking University BME PhD Program". Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering. Retrieved  January 19, 2015. 
  142. **^** "Georgia Tech Partnership". Emory University. Retrieved  January 19, 2015. 
  143. **^** "Emory receives $8.3 million to establish research laboratory".  
  144. **^** "Cystic Fibrosis Foundation Grants $1.8 million to Expand the Atlanta CF Research and Development Program".  
  145. **^** "Georgia Tech, Emory unite to train healthcare roboticists".  
  146. **^** "The Georgia Tech Supply Chain & Logistics Institute". Retrieved  August 7, 2015. 
  147. **^** "Research, Georgia Tech Panama Logistics Innovation & Research Center". Retrieved  August 7, 2015. 
  148. **^** "Education, Georgia Tech Panama Logistics Innovation & Research Center". Retrieved  August 7, 2015. 
  149. **^** "National University of Singapore and Georgia Institute of Technology Launch New Centre for Next Generation Logistics". Retrieved  August 7, 2015. 
  150. **^** "Cooperative Education named to national Hall of Honor". _The Whistle_. June 18, 2007. Retrieved  September 24, 2007. 
  151. **^** "Why Become Accredited?". Accreditation Council for Cooperative Education. Archived from the original on September 14, 2009. Retrieved  February 26, 2010. 
  152. **^** Mansoura, Reem (June 27, 2008). "Tech students meet with representatives in DC". _The Technique_. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  153. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Division of Professional Practice". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on June 30, 2007. Retrieved  September 24, 2007. 
  154. **^** "Graduate Cooperative Education Program". _Division of Professional Practice_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  September 24, 2007. 
  155. **^** "Academic Information: Professional Practice Programs". _Georgia Tech Factbook_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on July 19, 2011. Retrieved  February 26, 2011. 
  156. **^** "UC Inducts 2007 Honorees into Co-op Hall of Honor". _Division of Professional Practice_. University of Cincinnati. 2007. Archived from the original on June 30, 2007. Retrieved  September 24, 2007. 
  157. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology". University of Cincinnati Cooperative Education Hall of Honor. 2007. Retrieved  February 26, 2010. 
  158. **^** Mabry, C. Jason (August 22, 2003). "Bored yet? Find out what Tech and Atlanta have to offer". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 7, 2007. Retrieved  September 12, 2007. 
  159. **^** "Hotels and Restaurants Nearby Georgia Tech". Georgia Tech Research Institute. Archived from the original on February 6, 2008. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. 
  160. **^** "Tech Square Retail". Georgia Tech Student Center. Archived from the original on December 15, 2007. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. 
  161. **^** Ebrahimi, Aghigh (September 10, 1999). "Home Park provides close alternative". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on May 2, 2007. Retrieved  April 10, 2007. 
  162. **^** Meka, Hemanth Rao (February 27, 1998). "Home Park Festival seeks to entertain neighbors, help kids". _The Technique_. Retrieved  May 20, 2007. 
  163. **^** "Freshman Survival: You certainly won't find these in Webster's.." _The Technique_. August 23, 2002. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  February 1, 2007. 
  164. **^** Cheatham, Mike. "School Colors, Stolen Girl Friends, and Yellow Jacket Treachery". University of Georgia. Archived from the original on June 14, 2006. Retrieved July 30, 2009. 
  165. **^** German, Brandon. "Official school colors". _College Football Tradition_. 1122productions.com. Retrieved  March 16, 2007. 
  166. **^** "Georgia Tech traditions". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  March 12, 2007. 
  167. **^** "Georgia Institute of Technology – Campus Dining". _College Prowler_. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  168. **^** "Residence Halls". Georgia Tech Housing. Archived from the original on October 27, 2009. Retrieved  February 26, 2010. 
  169. **^** "FASET Orientation". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on September 11, 2007. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. 
  170. **^** "Georgia Tech Freshman Experience". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  March 21, 2007. 
  171. **^** "Annual First-Time Freshmen Retention Study" (PDF). Georgia Tech Office of Institutional Research and Planning. 2006. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 27, 2007. Retrieved September 11, 2007. 
  172. **^** "Student Related Information: Housing". _Georgia Tech Factbook_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  173. **^** Stephenson, James (August 25, 2006). "Housing moves 150 dorm rooms to triples". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  June 10, 2007. 
  174. **^** "Our Views Consensus Opinion: Three is a crowd". _The Technique_. August 25, 2006. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  June 10, 2007. 
  175. **^** Venkataraman, Ranganath (November 17, 2007). "Students continue to live in triple dorms". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  June 10, 2007. 
  176. **^** "Our Views Consensus Opinion". _The Technique_. March 9, 2007. Archived from the original on September 29, 2007. Retrieved  June 10, 2007. 
  177. **^** "Housing". _Georgia Tech Fact Book_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  August 2, 2014. 
  178. **^** Pon, Corbin (September 26, 2008). "First phase of North Avenue repair ends today". _The Technique_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on November 1, 2008. Retrieved  November 14, 2008. 
  179. **^** "I-House Provides a Forum to Discuss the U.S. Political Future". _Resident Housing Association_. Georgia Institute of Technology. November 1, 2008. Archived from the original on July 1, 2010. Retrieved  November 14, 2008. 
  180. **^** "Property Map Archived April 25, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.." 10th at Home. Retrieved on October 7, 2011.
  181. **^** "10th and Home Archived August 10, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.." Georgia Tech. Retrieved on October 2, 2011.
  182. **^** "Our Location/Map/Directions Archived October 22, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.." Georgia Tech. Retrieved on October 2, 2011. "Address: 251 10th St NW Atlanta, GA 30318"
  183. **^** "Centennial Place." Atlanta Public Schools. Retrieved on October 2, 2011.
  184. **^** "Inman." Atlanta Public Schools. Retrieved on October 2, 2011.
  185. **^** "Grady." Atlanta Public Schools. Retrieved on October 2, 2011.
  186. **^** "Student Organizations". _GT Catalog 2007–2008_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on August 30, 2008. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. Georgia Tech has more than 350 chartered student organizations that offer a variety of activities for student involvement. 
  187. **^** "Georgia Tech Student Government Association". Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. 
  188. **^** Edwards, Pat (April 18, 1997). "Ramblins". _The Technique_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  December 21, 2007. 
  189. **^** "History". _Alumni & Friends_. Georgia Tech School of Music. Archived from the original on February 6, 2011. Retrieved February 27, 2011. 
  190. **^** "About the Glee Club". Georgia Tech Glee Club. Archived from the original on May 11, 2008. Retrieved  November 8, 2007. 
  191. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Johnson, Rusty (February 25, 2000). "Campus music programs have storied history". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on September 8, 2007. Retrieved  March 17, 2007. 
  192. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Century of Singing". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. 2006. Archived from the original on April 11, 2006. Retrieved  June 7, 2007. 
  193. **^** "Ancient History". Georgia Tech Glee Club. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  194. **^** "Join Us". Georgia Tech Glee Club. Retrieved  February 26, 2011. 
  195. **^** "Georgia Tech Athletic Bands". Georgia Tech College of Architecture. Archived from the original on January 22, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  196. **^** "Georgia Tech Symphony Orchestra". Georgia Tech School of Music. Archived from the original on February 6, 2011. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  197. **^** "Jazz Ensemble". Georgia Tech School of Music. Archived from the original on February 6, 2011. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  198. **^** "Concert Band". Georgia Tech School of Music. Archived from the original on February 6, 2011. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  199. **^** "Percussion and MIDI Ensembles". Georgia Tech School of Music. Archived from the original on January 12, 2011. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  200. **^** "Chamber Ensembles". Georgia Tech School of Music. Archived from the original on February 6, 2011. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  201. **^** "Sonic Generator". Georgia Tech School of Music. Archived from the original on February 6, 2011. Retrieved  February 27, 2011. 
  202. **^** "Nothin' but Treble". Nothin' but Treble. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  203. **^** "News". Sympathetic Vibrations. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  204. **^** "Taal Tadka". Taal Tadka. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  205. **^** "News". Infinite Harmony. Archived from the original on September 28, 2008. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  206. **^** "History Of UTC". Retrieved  February 26, 2011. 
  207. **^** "Under the Couch » About Us". Musician's Network. Retrieved  February 26, 2011. 
  208. **^** "About Us". Ferst Center for the Arts. Archived from the original on July 30, 2007. Retrieved  August 23, 2007. 
  209. **^** Guyton, Andrew (March 30, 2007). "Third annual MomoCon draws 2,600 gaming fans". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on July 15, 2007. Retrieved  April 3, 2007. 
  210. **^** "MomoCon 2011". Georgia Tech College of Computing. Archived from the original on July 3, 2012. Retrieved  February 26, 2011. 
  211. **^** "GTCN decides to drop station dedicated to WREK". _The Technique_. March 6, 2009. Retrieved  February 26, 2011. 
  212. **^** "History". WREKage. Retrieved  August 16, 2009. 
  213. **^** Stephenson, James (November 17, 2006). "PBA inquires about managing WREK". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on February 13, 2008. Retrieved  July 18, 2009. 
  214. **^** Stephenson, James (April 6, 2007). "PBA meets with WREK". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on October 16, 2007. Retrieved  July 18, 2009. 
  215. **^** Tabita, Craig (February 16, 2007). "RCB meets with GPB representative". _The Technique_. Retrieved  July 18, 2009. 
  216. **^** "The First 100 Years of the Georgia Tech Amateur Radio Club". Georgia Tech Alumni Amateur Radio Club. Retrieved  March 7, 2014. 
  217. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Georgia Tech Blueprint Yearbook". Blueprint. Archived from the original on January 1, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  218. **^** "North Avenue Review". North Avenue Review. Archived from the original on January 21, 2008. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  219. **^** "North Avenue Review". Georgia Tech Library and Information Center. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  220. **^** "Erato". Erato. Archived from the original on November 9, 2009. Retrieved  July 30, 2009. 
  221. **^** "The Tower". The Tower. Retrieved  September 19, 2010. 
  222. **^** "T-Book". Archived from the original on May 8, 2009. Retrieved  October 18, 2009. 
  223. **^** "About". The Technique. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  224. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Georgia Tech Guide To Greek Life 2011" (PDF). Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 28, 2012. Retrieved June 24, 2012. 
  225. **^** "GT Greek Life: Interesting Facts". 2011.  26%: GT Undergraduates in Greek Life 
  226. **^** "Princeton Review says Georgia Tech is One of the Toughest". _BuzzWords_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. January 1, 2002. Archived from the original on January 3, 2006. Retrieved  February 9, 2008. It's not news to students or graduates, but the Princeton Review confirms that Georgia Tech is one of the nation's toughest schools. 
  227. **^** Robert Franek ... (2003). _The Best Southeastern Colleges: 100 Great Schools to Consider_. The Princeton Review. ISBN 0-375-76329-5.  Because of the heavy workload at Georgia Tech, most students are 'overly stressed, worried about tomorrow's test, and driven by the desire for the degree. This student has only minimal time for social functions.' 
  228. **^** "The 50 Most Stressful Colleges". The Daily Beast. April 4, 2010. Retrieved  April 6, 2010. 
  229. **^** "The 100 Happiest Colleges". The Daily Beast. May 12, 2010. Retrieved  May 12, 2010. 
  230. **^** Kantor, Arcadiy (May 23, 2008). "Absence of failure may be the key to real happiness". _The Technique_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on June 12, 2008. Retrieved  June 9, 2008. The famous comment about the Tech lifestyle is that you can only choose any two pursuits among sleeping, studying and a social life. 
  231. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Highlights of Georgia Tech History". Georgia Institute of Technology. 2007. Archived from the original on May 7, 2008. Retrieved  April 19, 2008. 
  232. **^** "History of the Southern Conference". Retrieved  November 25, 2007. 
  233. **^** Cromartie, Bill (2002) [1977]. _Clean Old-fashioned Hate: Georgia Vs. Georgia Tech_. Strode Publishers. ISBN 0-932520-64-2.  
  234. **^** "Georgia Tech Wins NCAA Women's Tennis Title". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. May 22, 2007. Retrieved  May 23, 2007. 
  235. **^** "Georgia Tech captures first NCAA women's tennis title". _ESPNU_. ESPN.com. May 23, 2007. Retrieved  May 23, 2007. 
  236. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Edwards, Pat (August 25, 2000). "Fight Songs". _The Technique_. Archived from the original on November 13, 2004. Retrieved  July 29, 2009. 
  237. **^** "Georgia Tech Traditions". Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  February 12, 2007. 
  238. **^** "Who's No. 1? Fighting Words About Battle Hymns". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. 1991. Archived from the original on May 22, 2006. Retrieved  May 20, 2007. 
  239. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Georgia Tech Songs Collection, 1900–1953". Georgia Tech Archives and Records Management. Retrieved  October 21, 2012. 
  240. **^** "White and Gold". _Ramblin' Memories: Traditions, Legends and Sounds of Georgia Tech_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original on December 28, 2007. Retrieved  February 3, 2008. 
  241. **^** "Georgia Tech Aquatic Center". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  May 25, 2007. 
  242. **^** "Bylaws of the Georgia Tech Alumni Association, Inc" (PDF). Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 15, 2006. Retrieved May 3, 2007. 
  243. **^** "GT Buildings: GTVA-UKL999-A". _A Thousand Wheels are set in Motion: The Building of Georgia Tech at the Turn of the 20th Century, 1888–1908_. Georgia Tech Library. Retrieved  January 29, 2007. 
  244. **^** "20 Common Questions about Georgia Tech". Georgia Tech Archives and Records Management. Archived from the original on September 13, 2006. Retrieved  March 13, 2007. 
  245. **^** "Admissions and Enrollment". _Georgia Tech Fact Book_. Georgia Institute of Technology. Retrieved  March 21, 2014. 
  246. **^** "History of the NROTC Unit at Georgia Institute of Technology". Georgia Tech NROTC. Archived from the original on September 2, 2006. Retrieved  March 5, 2007. 
  247. **^** "Launching of the Center". Georgia Tech Panama Logistics Innovation and Research Center. September 28, 2010. Retrieved  May 18, 2014. 
  248. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Goettling, Gary (1994). "The Unconventional Genius of Dr. Kary Banks Mullis". _Georgia Tech Alumni Magazine Online_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original on July 26, 2011. Retrieved  March 6, 2007. 
  249. **^** "College of Management MBA Program 2005" (PDF). Scheller College of Business. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 15, 2006. Retrieved March 24, 2007. 
  250. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "College of Management Honors Exceptional Alumni at Fourth Annual Celebration" (Press release). Scheller College of Business. May 1, 2006. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  251. **^** "EarthLink's Leadership: Charles (Gary) Betty". EarthLink. Archived from the original on December 18, 2007. Retrieved  August 1, 2009. 
  252. **^** "Michael T. Duke". Wal-Mart Stores. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  253. **^** Schwartz, Jerry (1993). "On His Own". _Georgia Tech Alumni Magazine Online_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original on March 18, 2005. Retrieved  August 1, 2009. 
  254. **^** "Ivan Allen Jr. Timeline". Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts. Retrieved  March 6, 2007. 
  255. **^** "A Conversation With Sam Nunn". _Georgia Tech Alumni Magazine Online_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. 1990. Archived from the original on July 26, 2011. Retrieved  March 6, 2007. 
  256. **^** "Presidents of Georgia Tech". Georgia Tech Office of Institutional Research and Planning. Archived from the original on August 14, 2007. Retrieved  March 6, 2007. 
  257. **^** "Appointment of William L. Ball III as Assistant to the President for Legislative Affairs". _Public Papers of Ronald Reagan_. Ronald Reagan Presidential Library. February 7, 1986. Retrieved  March 7, 2007. 
  258. **^** "Lieutenant General John M. Brown III". United States Army, Pacific. Archived from the original on October 6, 2007. Retrieved  March 7, 2007. 
  259. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Byrd, Joseph (1992). "From Civil War Battlefields to the Moon: Leonard Wood". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original on May 31, 2013. Retrieved  March 12, 2007. 
  260. **^** "Major Thomas B. McGuire Jr". Joint Base McGuire-Dix-Lakehurst. Archived from the original on March 15, 2011. Retrieved  February 25, 2011. 
  261. **^** "Astronaut Bio:Richard H. Truly". National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 1992. Retrieved  March 7, 2007. 
  262. **^** "Astronaut Bio: John Young". National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 2010. Retrieved  November 23, 2013. 
  263. **^** "Engineering Hall of Fame: College inducts alumni who have made "significant impact on the world "". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. 1995. Archived from the original on July 26, 2011. Retrieved  March 7, 2007. 
  264. **^** "Biography of Vetlesen Prize Winner". Trustees of Columbia University. Archived from the original on November 26, 2005. Retrieved  March 7, 2007. 
  265. **^** "Alumni Spotlight: Krishna Bharat". Georgia Tech College of Computing. Archived from the original on September 1, 2006. Retrieved  August 1, 2009. 
  266. **^** "Speaker D. Richard Hipp". O'Reilly Open Source Convention. Archived from the original on October 21, 2006. Retrieved  March 9, 2007. 
  267. **^** "Profiles: Michael Arad". Georgia Institute of Technology. Archived from the original on June 11, 2007. Retrieved  March 9, 2007. 
  268. **^** Goettling, Gary (1992). "Redneck Repartee". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. Archived from the original on May 19, 2006. Retrieved  March 10, 2007. 
  269. **^** Cathey, Boyd D. "Randolph Scott (1898–1987)". _North Carolina History Project_. Archived from the original on February 11, 2007. Retrieved  March 5, 2007. 
  270. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "National Football League players who Attended Georgia Tech". databaseFootball.com. Archived from the original on March 7, 2008. Retrieved  March 13, 2007. 
  271. **^** "NBA players who Attended Georgia Institute of Technology". databaseBasketball.com. Archived from the original on April 13, 2006. Retrieved  March 18, 2007. 
  272. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Players who Played for Georgia Institute of Technology". _baseball-reference.com_. Sports Reference, LLC. Retrieved  March 14, 2007. 
  273. **^** "Player Bio: Joe Hamilton". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  March 8, 2007. 
  274. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Georgia Tech Honors" (PDF). Georgia Tech Athletic Association. 2007. Retrieved September 30, 2007. 
  275. **^** "Player Bio: Calvin Johnson". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  March 8, 2007. 
  276. **^** "Player Bio: Tashard Choice". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  April 9, 2007. 
  277. **^** "Player Bio: Thaddeus Young". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  March 13, 2007. 
  278. **^** "Jarrett Jack Info Page". NBA.com. Archived from the original on February 13, 2007. Retrieved  March 10, 2007. 
  279. **^** "Rapid Success". _Tech Topics_. Georgia Tech Alumni Association. 2005. Archived from the original on July 26, 2011. Retrieved  March 5, 2007. 
  280. **^** "Alumni In The Majors". beesball.com. Archived from the original on April 21, 2006. Retrieved  March 14, 2007. 
  281. **^** "Georgia Tech Athletics Hall of Fame". _RamblinWreck.com_. Georgia Tech Athletic Association. Retrieved  March 4, 2007. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Brittain, Marion L. (1948). _The Story of Georgia Tech_. Chapel Hill, NC: University of North Carolina Press.  
  * Cromartie, Bill (2002) [1977]. _Clean Old-fashioned Hate: Georgia Vs. Georgia Tech_. Strode Publishers. ISBN 0-932520-64-2.  
  * McMath, Robert C.; Ronald H. Bayor; James E. Brittain; Lawrence Foster; August W. Giebelhaus; Germaine M. Reed (1985). _Engineering the New South: Georgia Tech 1885–1985_. Athens, GA: University of Georgia Press. ISBN 0-8203-0784-X.  
  * Wallace, Robert (1969). _Dress Her in WHITE and GOLD: A biography of Georgia Tech_. Georgia Tech Foundation.  

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Georgia Institute of
Technology**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Georgia Tech Athletics website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Georgia Institute of Technology  
  
---  
  
**Located in** : Atlanta, Georgia  
  
Colleges |

  * College of Computing
  * College of Design
  * College of Engineering
  * College of Sciences
  * Ivan Allen College of Liberal Arts
  * Scheller College of Business

|  
  
Schools |

  * Wallace H. Coulter Department of Biomedical Engineering
  * H. Milton Stewart School of Industrial and Systems Engineering
  * George W. Woodruff School of Mechanical Engineering

  
  
Research |

  * Georgia Tech Research Institute
  * Georgia Tech Research Corporation
  * Marcus Nanotechnology Building
  * Nuclear Research Center
  * Library

  
  
Athletics |

  * Yellow Jackets
  * Football
  * Baseball
  * Men's Basketball
  * Women's Basketball
  * Bobby Dodd Stadium
  * Hank McCamish Pavilion
  * Russ Chandler Stadium
  * Campus Recreation Center
  * Athletic Association

  
  
Student life |

  * Antico Pizza
  * DramaTech
  * Under the Couch
  * MomoCon
  * WREK Radio
  * Georgia Tech Cable Network
  * _The Technique_
  * _Blueprint_
  * Junior's Grill
  * Brittain Dining Hall
  * Glee Club
  * Marching Band
  * Buzz
  * "Up with the White and Gold"
  * "Ramblin' Wreck from Georgia Tech"
  * Greek life
  * RoboJackets
  * Flying Club
  * Clough Commons

  
  
Campus |

  * Georgia Tech main campus
  * Historic District
  * Technology Square
  * Home Park
  * Georgia Tech Lorraine
  * Georgia Tech Savannah

  
  
People and History |

  * Presidents
  * Faculty
  * Alumni
  * Athletes
  * History
  * Legends and Traditions
  * George P. Burdell
  * Ramblin' Wreck
  * Alumni Association
  * ANAK Society
  * Georgia Tech Foundation

  
  
  * **Founded** : 1885

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in metropolitan Atlanta  
  
---  
  
  * Agnes Scott College
  * Art Institute of Atlanta
  * Ashworth College
  * Atlanta Christian College
  * Atlanta Metropolitan College
  * Atlanta's John Marshall Law School
  * Bauder College
  * Chattahoochee Technical College
  * Christian College of Georgia
  * Clark Atlanta University
  * Clayton State University
  * Columbia Theological Seminary
  * Emory University
  * Georgia Gwinnett College
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * Georgia Perimeter College
  * Georgia State University
  * Gwinnett Technical College
  * Interdenominational Theological Center
  * Kennesaw State University
  * Laurus Technical Institute
  * Morehouse College
  * Morehouse School of Medicine
  * Morris Brown College
  * Oglethorpe University
  * Southern Polytechnic State University
  * Spelman College
  * University of West Georgia

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Atlantic Coast Conference  
  
---  
Atlantic Division |

  * Boston College Eagles
  * Clemson Tigers
  * Florida State Seminoles
  * Louisville Cardinals
  * North Carolina State Wolfpack
  * Notre Dame Fighting Irish (non-football member)
  * Syracuse Orange
  * Wake Forest Demon Deacons

|  
  
Coastal Division |

  * Duke Blue Devils
  * Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets
  * Miami Hurricanes
  * North Carolina Tar Heels
  * Pittsburgh Panthers
  * Virginia Cavaliers
  * Virginia Tech Hokies

  
  
Championships & awards |

  * Conference champions
  * National championships
  * Athlete of the Year

  
  
Broadcast partners |

  * Raycom Sports (ACC Network; list of affiliates)
  * ESPN (ACC Network Extra)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

University System of Georgia  
  
---  
Research universities |

  * Augusta University
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * Georgia State University
  * University of Georgia

  
  
Comprehensive universities |

  * Georgia Southern University
  * Kennesaw State University
  * University of West Georgia
  * Valdosta State University

  
  
State universities |

  * Albany State University
  * Armstrong State University
  * Clayton State University
  * Columbus State University
  * Fort Valley State University
  * Georgia College & State University
  * Georgia Southwestern State University
  * Middle Georgia State University
  * University of North Georgia
  * Savannah State University

  
  
Category I state colleges |

  * Abraham Baldwin Agricultural College
  * Atlanta Metropolitan State College
  * College of Coastal Georgia
  * Dalton State College
  * Georgia Gwinnett College
  * Gordon State College

  
  
Category II state colleges |

  * Bainbridge State College
  * Darton State College
  * East Georgia State College
  * Georgia Highlands College
  * Georgia Perimeter College
  * South Georgia State College

  
  
Governing body |

  * Georgia Board of Regents

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Global Alliance of Technological Universities  
  
---  
  
  * California Institute of Technology
  * Carnegie Mellon University
  * ETH Zurich
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * Imperial College London
  * Indian Institute of Technology Bombay
  * Nanyang Technological University
  * Shanghai Jiao Tong University
  * Technical University of Munich
  * University of New South Wales

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Public Ivy universities  
  
---  
  
Richard Moll's 1985 list  
  
Original Eight |

  * College of William & Mary
  * Miami University
  * University of California
  * University of Michigan
  * University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
  * University of Texas at Austin
  * University of Vermont
  * University of Virginia

  
  
"Worthy Runners-Up" |

  * Binghamton University, State University of New York
  * University of Colorado Boulder
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign
  * New College of Florida
  * Pennsylvania State University
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * University of Washington at Seattle
  * University of Wisconsin–Madison

  
  
Greenes' Guides 2001 list  
  
Eastern |

  * Binghamton University, State University of New York
  * College of William & Mary
  * Pennsylvania State University
  * Rutgers University
  * University of Connecticut
  * University of Delaware
  * University of Maryland
  * University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
  * University of Vermont
  * University of Virginia

  
  
Western |

  * University of Arizona
  * University of California: 
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * University of Colorado Boulder
  * University of Washington

  
  
Great Lakes & Midwest |

  * Indiana University
  * Miami University
  * Ohio State University
  * University of Illinois
  * University of Iowa
  * University of Michigan
  * Michigan State University
  * University of Minnesota
  * University of Wisconsin

  
  
Southern |

  * University of Florida
  * University of Georgia
  * University of Texas at Austin

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Southeastern Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Standard members |

  * Alabama
  * UAB
  * UAHuntsville
  * Arkansas
  * Auburn
  * Baylor
  * Catholic
  * UCF
  * Christopher Newport
  * Clemson
  * Delaware
  * Duke
  * East Carolina
  * Florida
  * Florida Atlantic
  * Florida Tech
  * FIU
  * Florida State
  * George Mason
  * George Washington
  * Georgetown
  * Georgia
  * Georgia Tech
  * Georgia State
  * Hampton
  * Houston
  * James Madison
  * Kentucky
  * UL Lafayette
  * LSU
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Maryland
  * UMBC
  * MIT
  * Memphis
  * Miami
  * Ole Miss
  * Mississippi State
  * New Orleans
  * Norfolk State
  * North Carolina A&T
  * North Carolina
  * NC State
  * Oklahoma
  * Old Dominion
  * Regina
  * Rice
  * Richmond
  * South Carolina
  * South Florida
  * Southern Miss
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Virginia
  * VCU
  * Virginia Tech
  * Virginia State
  * West Virginia
  * William & Mary

  
  
Affiliate members |

  * Idaho State
  * Ohio

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Polytechnic Institutes and Universities in the United States  
  
---  
Public |

  * AFIT
  * ASU at the Polytechnic
  * Arkansas Tech
  * Cal Poly (Pomona and San Luis Obispo)
  * Colorado Mines
  * Florida Poly
  * Georgia Tech
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas State University Polytechnic Campus
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Michigan Tech
  * Missouri S&T
  * Montana Tech
  * NJIT
  * New Mexico Tech
  * OSUIT
  * Oregon Tech
  * South Dakota Mines
  * Southern Poly
  * SUNY Poly
  * Tennessee Tech
  * Texas Tech
  * UW–Stout
  * Virginia Tech
  * WVU Tech

  
  
Private |

  * Caltech
  * Clarkson
  * Florida Tech
  * Harrisburg U
  * Illinois Tech
  * Indiana Tech
  * Lawrence Tech
  * MIT
  * New England Tech
  * NYIT
  * Northwestern Polytechnic
  * Rensselaer
  * RIT
  * Rose-Hulman
  * Stevens
  * Wentworth
  * WPI

  
  
  * ACC portal
  * University portal
  * Georgia (U.S. state) portal
  * Atlanta portal
  * Engineering portal

Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 141880757
  * LCCN: n79058463
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 2097 4943
  * GND: 90003-5
  * SUDOC: 026451174
  * BNF: cb118696838 (data)
  * ULAN: 500312929
  * NLA: 35119211

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Georgia_Institute_of_Technology&oldid=816936974"

Categories:

  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * Universities and colleges in Atlanta
  * Educational institutions established in 1885
  * Engineering universities and colleges in Georgia (U.S. state)
  * Midtown Atlanta
  * Technological universities in the United States
  * Universities and colleges accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
  * Universities and colleges in Georgia (U.S. state)
  * 1885 establishments in Georgia (U.S. state)
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from August 2011
  * Articles with dead external links from March 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from November 2015
  * Use mdy dates from October 2017
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2014
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * All Wikipedia articles needing clarification
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from September 2015
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2013
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers
  * Good articles

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Қазақша
  * मराठी
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Suomi
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 24 December 2017, at 20:52.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 7 ranking. Duke is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

