

# Grading (education)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from GPA)

Jump to: navigation, search

|

The examples and perspective in this article **deal primarily with Europe and
the United States and do not represent aworldwide view of the subject**.  You
may improve this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new
article, as appropriate. _(December 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this
template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
"GPA" redirects here. For other uses, see GPA (disambiguation).

For other uses, see Grade (disambiguation).

Academic grading  
---  
Africa  
  
  * Egypt
  * Kenya
  * Morocco
  * South Africa
  * Tunisia

  
North America  
  
  * Canada
  * Mexico
  * United States

  
Central America  
  
  * Costa Rica
  * Nicaragua

  
South America  
  
  * Chile
  * Venezuela

  
Asia  
  
  * Bangladesh
  * China
  * Hong Kong
  * India
  * Indonesia
  * Iran
  * Israel
  * Japan
  * Kyrgyzstan
  * Nepal
  * Pakistan
  * Philippines
  * Singapore
  * South Korea
  * Syria
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Vietnam

  
Europe  
  
  * **ECTS**
  * **European Baccalaureate**
  * **GPA in Europe**
  * **Latin honours**

  * Albania
  * Austria
  * Belgium
  * Bosnia and Herzegovina
  * Bulgaria
  * Croatia
  * Czech Republic
  * Denmark
  * Finland
  * France
  * Germany
  * Greece
  * Hungary
  * Iceland
  * Ireland
  * Italy
  * Latvia
  * Liechtenstein
  * Lithuania
  * Luxembourg
  * Moldova
  * Netherlands
  * Norway
  * Poland
  * Portugal
  * Romania
  * Russia
  * Serbia
  * Slovakia
  * Slovenia
  * Spain
  * Sweden
  * Switzerland
  * Ukraine
  * United Kingdom

  
Oceania  
  
  * Australia
  * New Zealand

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
**Grading** in education is the process of applying standardized measurements
of varying levels of achievement in a course. Grades can be assigned as
letters (generally A through F), as a range (for example 1 to 6), as a
percentage of a total number of questions answered correctly, or as a number
out of a possible total (for example out of 20 or 100).[1]

In some countries, all grades from all current classes are averaged to create
a **grade point average** ( **GPA** ) for the marking period. The GPA is
calculated by taking the number of grade points a student earned in a given
period of time of middle school through high school.[2] GPAs are also
calculated for undergraduate and graduate students in most universities. The
GPA can be used by potential employers or educational institutions to assess
and compare applicants. A **cumulative grade point average** ( **CGPA** ) is a
calculation of the average of all of a student's total earned points divided
by the possible number of points. This grading system calculates for all of
his or her complete education career. Grade point averages can be unweighted
(where all classes with the same number of credits have equal influence on the
GPA) or weighted (where some classes are given more influence than
others).[3].

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Differing college grading standards within the United States
  * 3 GPA in the United States job market
  * 4 International grading systems
    * 4.1 GCSE
  * 5 Grading systems by country
  * 6 See also
  * 7 References

## History[edit]

Yale University historian George W. Pierson writes: "According to tradition
the first grades issued at Yale (and possibly the first in the country) were
given out in the year 1785, when President Ezra Stiles, after examining 58
Seniors, recorded in his diary that there were 'Twenty _Optimi_ , sixteen
second _Optimi_ , twelve _Inferiores_ ( _Boni_ ), ten _Pejores_.'"[4] Bob
Marlin argues that the concept of grading students' work quantitatively was
developed by a tutor named William Farish and first implemented by the
University of Cambridge in 1792.[5] Hoskin's assertion has been questioned by
Christopher Stray, who finds the evidence for Farish as the inventor of the
numerical mark to be unpersuasive.[6] Stray's article elucidates the complex
relationship between the mode of examination (testing), in this case oral or
written, and the varying philosophies of education these modes imply, to both
the teacher and student. As a technology, grading both shapes and reflects
many fundamental areas of educational theory and practice. Over the past
hundred years, various colleges, such as Evergreen State College and Hampshire
College have begun to eschew grades. Ivy League university Brown University
does not calculate grade-point averages, and all classes can be taken on a
pass/fail basis. Additionally, several secondary schools have additionally
decided to forgo grades. A notable example is Saint Ann's School in Brooklyn
which was ranked by the Wall Street Journal as the number one high school in
the country for having the highest percentage of graduating seniors enroll in
Ivy League and several other highly selective colleges.[7]

##  Differing college grading standards within the United States[edit]

Different colleges give different grades. Private colleges give an average GPA
of 3.3 while public colleges give an average GPA of 3.0 to equally qualified
students.[8] Different genders receive different college grades as well, with
women receiving substantially higher grades than men.[9] In a traditional
college classroom setting, women are given higher grades than men, especially
attractive women with male professors (which the vast majority of professors
are). When taking online courses, the large advantage given to attractive
women virtually disappears.[10]

## GPA in the United States job market[edit]

According to a study published in 2014, a one-point increase in high-school
GPA translated to an 11.85% increase in annual earnings for men and 13.77% for
women in the United States.[11]

College and post-college students often wonder how much weight their GPA
carries in future employment. In the various broadly defined professions as a
whole, internships and work experience gained during one's time in college are
easily the most important factors that employers consider. In order of
importance, the remaining factors are choice of major, volunteering, choice of
extracurricular activity, relevance of coursework, grade point average and the
reputation of one's college. The relative importance of these factors do vary
somewhat between professions, but in all of them, a graduate's GPA is
relatively low on the list of factors that employers consider.[12] There is
also criticism about using grades as an indicator in employment. Armstrong
(2012) claimed that the relationship between grades and job performance is low
and becoming lower in recent studies.[13] The grade inflation that has plagued
American colleges over recent decades has also played a role in the
devaluation of grades.[14]

## International grading systems[edit]

Most nations have individual grading systems unique to their own schools.
However, several international standards for grading have arisen recently.

Main article: European Baccalaureate

### GCSE[edit]

In the General Certificate of Secondary Education (GCSE) exam taken by
secondary school students in England and Wales, grades generally range from 9
(highest) to 1 (lowest). However, in GCSE Science, Additional Science,
Mathematics, Statistics, English Literature, English Language, and any Modern
or Classical Foreign Language, there are two tiers (higher and foundation). In
the higher tier, grades 9 to 4 can be achieved, while in the foundation tier,
only grades 5 to 1 can be awarded.[15] Generally, a 4 or above would be
considered a pass and a 3 or below would be considered a fail by most
institutions: for Mathematics and English Language and English Literature, and
possibly Science, this would require a resit.

If an examined candidate does not score highly enough to get a grade 1, then
he/she will be 'Uncredited'. This is often abbreviated to a 'U' as a final
result.

## Grading systems by country[edit]

Main article: Grading systems by country

## See also[edit]

  * Grading on a curve
  * Sudbury school, a school model for ages 4 through 18 with schools internationally with no grading or grade levels

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Salvo Intravaia (November 7, 2009). "Il liceale con la media del 9,93 "Sono il più bravo d'Italia"". _repubblica.it_ (in Italian).  
  2. **^** grade point average. (n.d.). WordNet2.0 Retrieved 3 October 2011, from Dictionary.com website: http://dictionary.reference.com/browse/grade point average
  3. **^** Warne, Russell T.; Nagaishi, Chanel; Slade, Michael K.; Hermesmeyer, Paul; Peck, Elizabeth Kimberli. "Comparing weighted and unweighted grade point averages in predicting college success of diverse and low-income college students". _NASSP Bulletin_. **98** : 261–279. doi:10.1177/0192636514565171. Retrieved 17 February 2017. 
  4. **^** Pierson, George (1983). "C. Undergraduate Studies: Yale College". _A Yale Book of Numbers. Historical Statistics of the College and University 1701 - 1976_. New Haven: Yale Office of Institutional Research. p.  310. 
  5. **^** Postman, Neil (1992). _Technopoly The Surrender of Culture to Technology_. New York: Alfred A. Knopf. p. 13.  
  6. **^** Christopher Stray, "From Oral to Written Examinations: Cambridge, Oxford and Dublin 1700-1914", History of Universities 20:2 (2005), 94-95.
  7. **^** April 2, 2004 _Wall Street Journal_ , Cover Story (Personal Journal)
  8. **^** Rampell, Catherine (April 19, 2010). "Want a Higher GPA, Go to a Private College". _NY Times_. New York: The New York Times Company. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  9. **^** Lorah, Julie; Ndum, Edwin (November 2013), "Trends in Achievement Gaps in First-Year College Courses forRacial/Ethnic, Income, and Gender Subgroups: A 12-Year Study" (PDF), _ACT Research Report Series_  
  10. **^** Hernández-Julián, Rey; Peters, Christina (December 2015), "STUDENT APPEARANCE AND ACADEMIC PERFORMANCE" (PDF), _Metropolitan State University of Denver_  
  11. **^** Berman, Jillian (23 May 2014). "Female 'A+' Students End Up Making As Much As Male 'C' Students". _The Huffington Post_. Archived from the original on 25 May 2014.  
  12. **^** "The Role of Higher Education in Career Development: Employer Perceptions" (PDF). _The Chronicle of Higher Education_. December 2012. Retrieved  6 November 2015. 
  13. **^** Armstrong, J. Scott (2012). "Natural Learning in Higher Education". _Encyclopedia of the Sciences of Learning_.  
  14. **^** Katsikas, Aina (13 January 2015). "Same Performance, Better Grades". _The Atlantic_. Retrieved  5 November 2015. Ultimately, grade inflation has severe consequences. Not only does it make it difficult for employers to vet the caliber of an applicant, but it also misleads students, who often use their grades as benchmarks to help diagnose their strengths and weaknesses. 
  15. **^** "Pearson qualifications - Edexcel, BTEC, LCCI and EDI - Pearson qualifications". _www.edexcel.com_.  

  * v
  * t
  * e

Standards-based education reform  
  
---  
Individuals |

  * Benjamin Bloom
  * Jerome Bruner
  * Rheta DeVries
  * Caleb Gattegno
  * Constance Kamii
  * Maria Montessori
  * Jean Piaget
  * William Spady
  * Marc Tucker
  * Lev Vygotsky

  
  
Theories |

  * Active learning
  * Block scheduling
  * Cognitive load
  * Constructivism
  * Developmentally appropriate practice
  * Discovery learning
  * Holistic education
  * Holistic grading
  * Inclusion
  * Inquiry-based learning
  * Inventive spelling
  * Open-space school
  * Outcome-based education
  * Problem-based learning
  * Small schools movement

  
  
Values |

  * Achievement gap
  * Excellence and equity

  
  
Learning standards |

  * Adequate Yearly Progress
  * Certificate of Initial Mastery
  * Goals 2000
  * National Reading Panel
  * National Science Education Standards
  * National Skill Standards Board
  * No Child Left Behind Act
  * Principles and Standards for School Mathematics

  
  
Standards-based  
assessment

|

  * Authentic assessment
  * Criterion-referenced test
  * Norm-referenced test
  * High school graduation examination

  
  
Standardized tests |

  * List of standardized tests in the United States
  * Standardized testing and public policy

  
  
Standardized  
curriculum

|

  * Decodable text
  * Direct instruction
  * Grades
  * Guided reading
  * Lecture
  * Phonics
  * Rote learning
  * Standard algorithms
  * Tracking (education)
  * Traditional education
  * Traditional mathematics
  * Whole language

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Grading_(education)&oldid=815713288"

Categories:

  * Academic transfer
  * Education reform
  * Student assessment and evaluation
  * Educational evaluation methods

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 Italian-language sources (it)
  * Articles with limited geographic scope from December 2017
  * Pages in non-existent country centric categories
  * Use dmy dates from November 2010

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Кыргызча
  * Magyar
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Slovenščina
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * தமிழ்
  * తెలుగు
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 16 December 2017, at 16:42.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

