

# Hamas

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

"Islamic Resistance Movement" redirects here. For the Iraqi group, see 1920
Revolution Brigade.

Hamas  
حركة المقاومة الاسلامية  
  
---  
Spokesperson | Fawzi Barhoum  
Chief of the Political Bureau | Ismail Haniya  
Deputy Chief of the Political Bureau | Mousa Abu Marzouq and Khaled Mashal[1]  
Founder | Sheikh Ahmed Yassin, Abdel Aziz al-Rantissi, Mahmoud Zahar and 4
others.  
Founded | 1987 (1987)  
Preceded by | Palestinian Muslim Brotherhood  
Headquarters | Gaza, Palestinian territories  
Ideology |

  * Palestinian nationalism
  * Sunni Islamism[2]
  * Islamic nationalism[3][4][5]
  * Islamic fundamentalism
  * Anti-Zionism
  * Antisemitism

  
  
Political position | Far-right  
Religion | Sunni Islam  
International affiliation | Muslim Brotherhood  
Colours | Green  
Legislative Council (2006) |

74 / 132  
  
Party flag  
Website  
hamas.ps/en  
  
  * Politics of Palestine
  * Political parties
  * Elections

  
  
**Hamas** (Arabic: حماس _Ḥamās_ , an acronym of حركة المقاومة الاسلامية
_Ḥarakat al-Muqāwamah al-ʾIslāmiyyah_ Islamic Resistance Movement) is a
Palestinian Sunni-Islamic fundamentalist organization.[6][7] It has a social
service wing, Dawah, and a military wing, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades.
It has been the _de facto_ governing authority of the Gaza Strip since its
takeover of that area in 2007.[8][9] During this period it fought several wars
with Israel.[10] It is regarded, either in whole or in part, as a terrorist
organization by several countries and international organizations, most
notably by Israel, the United States and the European Union.[11][12][13]

Hamas was founded in 1987,[14][15] soon after the First Intifada broke out, as
an offshoot of the Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood,[16][17] which in its Gaza
branch had been non-confrontational towards Israel, refrained from resistance,
and was hostile to the PLO.[18] Co-founder Sheik Ahmed Yassin stated in 1987,
and the Hamas Charter affirmed in 1988, that Hamas was founded to liberate
Palestine, including modern-day Israel, from Israeli occupation and to
establish an Islamic state in the area that is now Israel, the West Bank and
the Gaza Strip.[19][20] The group has stated that it may accept a 10-year
truce if Israel withdraws to the 1967 borders and allows Palestinian refugees
from 1948, including their descendants, to return to what is now
Israel,[21][22][23][24] although clarifying that this does not mean
recognition of Israel or the end of the conflict.[25] Hamas's military wing
objected to the truce offer.[26] Analysts have said that it seems clear that
Hamas knows that many of its conditions for the truce could never be met.[27]

The military wing of Hamas has launched attacks against Israeli civilians and
soldiers, often describing them as retaliatory, in particular for
assassinations of the upper echelon of their leadership.[28] Tactics have
included suicide bombings and, since 2001, rocket attacks.[29][30][31][32]
Hamas's rocket arsenal, though mainly consisting of short-range homemade
Qassam rockets,[33] also includes long-range weapons that have reached major
Israeli cities including Tel Aviv and Haifa.[34][35] The attacks on civilians
have been condemned as war crimes and crimes against humanity by human rights
groups such as Human Rights Watch.[36][37] A 2017 Palestinian Center for
Public Opinion poll in the Palestinian territories revealed that Hamas
violence and rhetoric against Israelis are unpopular and that a majority of
Palestinians would rather Hamas "accept a permanent two-state solution based
on the 1967 borders."[38]

In the January 2006 Palestinian parliamentary elections, Hamas won a plurality
in the Palestinian Parliament,[39] defeating the PLO-affiliated Fatah party.
Following the elections, the Quartet (the United States, Russia, United
Nations, and European Union) made future foreign assistance to the PA
conditional upon the future government's commitment to non-violence,
recognition of the state of Israel, and acceptance of previous agreements.
Hamas rejected those changes, which led to the Quartet suspending its foreign
assistance program and Israel imposing economic sanctions on the Hamas-led
administration.[40][41] In March 2007, a national unity government headed by
Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh of Hamas was briefly formed, but this failed to
restart international financial assistance.[42] Tensions over control of
Palestinian security forces soon erupted in the 2007 Battle of Gaza,[42] after
which Hamas took control of Gaza, while its officials were ousted from
government positions in the West Bank.[42] Israel and Egypt then imposed an
economic blockade of the Gaza Strip, on the grounds that Fatah forces were no
longer providing security there.[43] In 2011, Hamas and Fatah announced a
reconciliation agreement that provides for creation of a joint caretaker
Palestinian government.[44] Progress stalled, until an April 2014 agreement to
form a compromise unity government, with elections to be held in late
2014.[45]

## Contents

  * 1 Etymology
  * 2 Aims
  * 3 Leadership and structure
    * 3.1 Consultative councils
    * 3.2 Social Services Wing
    * 3.3 Military wing
  * 4 Finances and funding
  * 5 History
    * 5.1 Gaza Islamic roots and establishment of Hamas
    * 5.2 Hamas Charter (1988)
    * 5.3 1990s
    * 5.4 Second Intifada
    * 5.5 2006 presidential and legislative elections
    * 5.6 Legislative policy and reforming the judiciary
    * 5.7 Public freedoms and citizen rights
    * 5.8 Hamas–Fatah conflict
    * 5.9 2008–2009 Gaza War
    * 5.10 After the Gaza War
    * 5.11 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict
    * 5.12 Reconciliation attempts
  * 6 Media
    * 6.1 Children's magazine
    * 6.2 Al-Aqsa TV
  * 7 Islamization efforts
    * 7.1 In the Gaza Strip
    * 7.2 In the West Bank
    * 7.3 Tayyip Erdoğan's Turkey as a role model
  * 8 Antisemitism and anti-Zionism
    * 8.1 Hamas Charter (1988)
    * 8.2 Statements by Hamas members and clerics to an Arab audience
    * 8.3 Statements by Hamas members and clerics to an international audience
    * 8.4 Statements on the Holocaust
  * 9 Violence and terrorism
    * 9.1 Attacks on civilians
    * 9.2 Rocket attacks on Israel
    * 9.3 Attempts to derail 2010 peace talks
    * 9.4 Themes of martyrdom
    * 9.5 Guerrilla warfare
    * 9.6 Extrajudicial killings of rivals
    * 9.7 2011–2013 Sinai insurgency
    * 9.8 International designations as a terrorist organization
  * 10 Criticism
    * 10.1 Human shields
    * 10.2 Children as combatants
    * 10.3 Political freedoms
    * 10.4 Human rights abuses
  * 11 International support
    * 11.1 Qatar and Turkey
    * 11.2 U.S.-based support
  * 12 See also
  * 13 References
    * 13.1 Bibliography
  * 14 External links

## Etymology

_Hamas_ is an acronym of the Arabic phrase حركة المقاومة الاسلامية or _Harakat
al-Muqāwama al-Islāmiyya_ , meaning "Islamic Resistance Movement". The Arabic
word 'hamas' (حماس) means "courage" or "zeal".[46] The Hamas covenant
interprets its name to mean "strength and bravery".[47][48]

## Aims

Hamas, as its name (Islamic Resistance Movement) implies, aims to liberate
Palestine from the Israeli occupation by resisting it.[49] And according to
Hamas armed branch Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades:

“ | To contribute in the effort of liberating Palestine and restoring the
rights of the Palestinian people under the sacred Islamic teachings of the
Holy Quran, the Sunnah (traditions) of Prophet Muhammad (peace and blessings
of Allah be upon him) and the traditions of Muslims rulers and scholars noted
for their piety and dedication.[50] | ”  
---|---|---  
  
Al-Qassam Brigades aims to liberate all of Palestine from what they describe
as Zionist occupation, and to achieve the rights of the Palestinian people
that were robbed by the occupation, and it consider itself part of the
movement of a project of national liberation.[51]

## Leadership and structure

Map of key Hamas leadership nodes. 2010

Longtime leader, Khaled Meshaal

Hamas inherited from its predecessor a tripartite structure that consisted in
the provision of social services, of religious training and military
operations under a Shura Council. Traditionally it had four distinct
functions: (a) a charitable social welfare division ( _dawah_ ); (b) a
military division for procuring weapons and undertaking operations ( _al-
Mujahideen al Filastinun_ ); (c) a security service ( _Jehaz Aman_ ); and (d)
a media branch ( _A’alam_ ).[52] Hamas has both an internal leadership within
the West Bank and the Gaza Strip, and an external leadership, split between a
Gaza group directed by Mousa Mohammed Abu Marzook from his exile first in
Damascus and then in Egypt, and a Kuwaiti group ( _Kuwaidia_ ) under Khaled
Mashal.[53] The Kuwaiti group of Palestinian exiles began to receive extensive
funding from the Gulf States after its leader Mashal broke with Yasser
Arafat's decision to side with Saddam Hussein in the Invasion of Kuwait, with
Mashal insisting that Iraq withdraw.[54] On 6 May 2017, Hamas' Shura Council
chose Ismail Haniya to become the new leader, to replace Mashal.[55]

The exact nature of the organization is unclear, secrecy being maintained for
fear of Israeli assassinations and to conceal operational activities.
Formally, Hamas maintains the wings are separate and independent. Matthew
Levitt maintains this is a public myth. Davis argues that they are both
separate and combined for reasons of internal and external political
necessity. Communication between the political and military wings of Hamas is
difficult, owing to the thoroughness of Israeli intelligence surveillance and
the existence of an extensive base of informants. After the assassination of
Abdel Aziz al-Rantisi the occasional political direction of the militant wing
diminished, with field commanders given discretional autonomy on
operations.[56]

### Consultative councils

The governing body is the Majlis al-Shura. The principle behind the Council is
based on the Qur'anic concept of consultation and popular assembly ( _shura_
), which Hamas leaders argue provides for democracy within an Islamic
framework.[57] As the organization grew more complex and Israeli pressure
increased it needed a broader base for decisions, the Shura Council was
renamed the 'General Consultative Council', elected from members of local
council groups and this in turn elected a 15-member Politburo ( _al-Maktab al-
Siyasi_ )[58] that made decisions at the highest level. Representatives come
from Gaza, the West Bank, leaders in exile and Israeli prisons.[59] This organ
was located in Damascus until the Syrian Civil War led it to transfer to Qatar
in January 2012, when Hamas sided with the civil opposition against the regime
of Bashar al-Assad.[59][60]

### Social Services Wing

Hamas developed its social welfare programme by replicating the model
established by Egypt's Muslim Brotherhood.For them, charity and the
development of one's community are prescribed by religion, and, at the same
time, are to be understood as forms of resistance.[61] In Islamic tradition
_dawah_ (lit.'the call to God') obliges the faithful to reach out to others by
both proselytising and by charitable works, and typically the latter centre on
the mosques which make use of both waqf endowment resources and charitable
donations (zakat) to fund grassroots services like nurseries, schools,
orphanages, soup kitchens, women's activities, library services and even
sporting clubs within a larger context of preaching and political
discussions.[62] In the 1990s, some 85% of its budget was allocated to the
provision of social services.[63] It has been called perhaps the most
significant social services actor in Palestine. By 2000 it or its affiliated
charities ran roughly 40% of the social institutions in the West Bank and Gaza
and, with other Islamic charities, by 2005 was supporting 120,000 individuals
with monthly financial support in Gaza.[64] Part of the appeal of these
institutions is that they fill a vacuum in the administration by the PLO of
the Palestinian territories, which had failed to cater to the demand for jobs
and broad social services, and is widely viewed as corrupt.[65] As late as
2005, the budget of Hamas, drawing on global charity contributions, was mostly
tied up in covering running expenses for its social programmes, which extended
from the supply of housing, food and water for the needy to more general
functions like financial aid, medical assistance, educational development and
religious instruction. A certain accounting flexibility allowed these funds to
cover both charitable causes and military operations, permitting transfer from
one to the other.[66]

The _dawah_ infrastructure itself was understood, within the Palestinian
context, as providing the soil from which a militant opposition to the
occupation would flower.[67] In this regard it differs from the rival
Palestinian Islamic Jihad which lacks any social welfare network, and relies
on spectacular terrorist attacks to recruit adherents.[68] In 2007, through
funding from Iran, Hamas managed to allocate at a cost of $60 million, monthly
stipends of $100 for 100,000 workers, and a similar sum for 3,000 fishermen
laid idle by Israel's imposition of restrictions on fishing offshore, plus
grants totalling $45 million to detainees and their families.[69] Matthew
Levitt argues that Hamas grants to people are subject to a rigorous cost-
benefit analysis of how beneficiaries will support Hamas, with those linked to
terrorist activities receiving more than others.[70] Israel holds the families
of suicide bombers accountable and bulldozes their homes, whereas the families
of Hamas activists who have been killed or wounded during militant operations
are given an initial, one-time grant varying between $500–$5,000, together
with a $100 monthly allowance. Rent assistance is also given to families whose
homes have been destroyed by Israeli bombing though families unaffiliated with
Hamas are said to receive less.[71][72]

Until 2007, these activities extended to the West Bank, but, after a PLO
crackdown, now continue exclusively in the Gaza Strip.[73] After the 2013
Egyptian coup d'état deposed the elected Muslim Brotherhood government of
Mohamed Morsi in 2013, Hamas found itself in a financial straightjacket and
has since endeavoured to throw the burden of responsibility for public works
infrastructure in the Gaza Strip back onto the Palestinian National Authority,
but without success.[74]

### Military wing

Main article: Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades

The Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, Hamas's military wing was formed in either
mid-1991[75][76] or 1992, under the direction of Yahya Ayyash, a Hamas field-
commander and bomb-maker assassinated by Israel in 1996. It was constituted
from units associated with the earlier _al-Jihad wa Da’wa_ , an umbrella group
that had gathered in militants from various Islamic resistance cells like the
_Al-Mujahidun al-Filastiniun_ (Palestinian fighters).[77][78] established by
Salah Shehade in 1986.[79]

The wing takes its name from the prewar militant Palestinian nationalist
Sheikh Izz ad-Din al-Qassam, though Hamas cells sometimes refer to themselves
as "Students of Ayyash", "Students of the Engineer", or "Yahya Ayyash
Units".[78] At the outset, weapons were hard to come by, and the organization
began to resort to intermittent kidnappings of soldiers to secure arms and
munitions. This approach had been justified two years earlier when, in the
wake of the killing of some 20 Palestinians were killed by Israeli forces
dispersing protestors at the Al-Aqsa Mosque in 1990, Hamas had declared every
Israeli soldier a legitimate target.[80]

Weapons found in a mosque during Operation Cast Lead, according to the IDF

Ayyash, with a degree in electrical engineering, quickly improved Hamas's
strike capacity by developing IEDs and promoting the tactic of suicide
bombings.[81] By the time of the Al-Aqsa Intifada, Hamas's laboratories had
devised a primitive form of rocketry, the Qassam 1, which they first launched
in October 2000, carrying a 500 gram warhead with a throw range of 4
kilometres. Both propellant and the explosive were manufactured from chemical
fertilizers, though TNT was also tried.[82] Over the next five years of the
conflict, a 3-kilogram-warhead-armed version with a strike range of 6–8
kilometres, the Qassam 2, was also produced[83] and in an incremental rise,
these rocket types were fired towards Israeli settlements along the Gaza
Strip: 4 in 2001, 35 in 2002, 155 in 2003, 281 in 2004, and 179 in 2005. By
2005, the Qassam 3 had been engineered with a 12–14 kilometre range and a 15
kilo warhead. By 2006, 942 such rockets were launched into southern
Israel.[84] During the War with Israel in 2008–2009, Hamas deployed 122-mm
Grad rocketry with a 20–40 kilometre range and a 30 kilogram warhead and a
variety of guided Kornet antitank missiles.[85] By 2012 Hamas had engineered a
version of the Fajr-5 rocket, which was capable of reaching as far as Tel
Aviv, as was shown after the assassination of Ahmed Jabari in that year. In
the 2014 war its advanced rocketry reached Jerusalem, Tel Aviv and Haifa.[86]
Hamas deployed its increasingly sophisticated[ _dubious – discuss_] rocketry
to replace its martyrdom operations.[87]

While the number of members is known only to the Brigades leadership, Israel
estimates the Brigades have a core of several hundred members who receive
military style training, including training in Iran and in Syria (before the
Syrian Civil War).[78] Additionally, the brigades have an estimated
10,000–17,000 operatives,[88][89] forming a backup force whenever
circumstances call for reinforcements for the Brigade. Recruitment training
lasts for two years.[78]

The group's ideology outlines its aim as the liberation of Palestine and the
restoration of Palestinian rights under the dispensations set forth in the
Qur'an, and this translates into three policy priorities:

> To evoke the spirit of Jihad (Resistance) among Palestinians, Arabs, and
Muslims; to defend Palestinians and their land against the Zionist occupation
and its manifestations; to liberate Palestinians and their land that was
usurped by the Zionist occupation forces and settlers.[90]

According to its official stipulations, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades'
military operations are to be restricted to operating only inside Palestine,
engaging with Israeli soldiers, and in exercising the right of self-defense
against armed settlers. They are to avoid civilian targets, to respect the
enemy's humanity by refraining from mutilation, defacement or excessive
killing, and to avoid targeting Westerners either in the occupied zones or
beyond.[91]

In practice, Hamas altered its approach restricting actions to 'legitimate
military targets' by extended them to Israeli civilians after 7 years.[89]
Though between 1996 and 2001 it generally refrained from targeting Israeli
civilians,[92] it adopted sporadic suicide bombings in the wake of the Cave of
the Patriarchs massacre, when an Israeli settler in military fatigues, Baruch
Goldstein, shot dead 29 Muslims at prayer in 1993.[93][94][95] After the Al
Aqsa revolt, the Brigades were behind most of the suicide bombings in Israel,
a measure it defended as a form of "reciprocity".[92]

Down to 2007, the Brigades are estimated to have lost some 800 operatives in
conflicts with Israeli forces. The leadership has been consistently undermined
by targeted assassinations. Aside from Yahya Ayyash (5 January 1996), it has
lost Emad Akel (24 November 1993) Salah Shehade, (23 July 2002), Ibrahim al-
Makadmeh, (8 March 2003) Ismail Abu Shanab, (21 August 2003) Ahmed Yassin
(March 22, 2004) and Abdel Aziz al-Rantisi,( April 17, 2004).,[47][87][96]

After Israel arrested hundreds of its members in May 1989, Hamas regionalized
its command system to make its operative structure more diffuse,[65] and
minimalize the chances of being detected.[97] The Izz ad-Din al-Qassam
Brigades groups its fighters in 4–5 man cells, which in turn are integrated
into companies and battalions. Unlike the political section, which is split
between an internal and external structure, the Brigades are under a local
Palestinian leadership, and disobedience with the decisions taken by the
political leadership have been relatively rare.[98]

Although the Izz al-Din al-Qassam Brigades are an integral part of Hamas, the
exact nature of the relationship is hotly debated. They appear to operate at
times independently of Hamas, exercising a certain
autonomy.[99][100][101][102][103] Some cells have independent links with the
external leadership, enabling them to bypass the hierarchical command chain
and political leadership in Gaza.[97] Ilana Kass and Bard O'Neill, likening
Hamas's relationship with the Brigades to the political party Sinn Féin's
relationship to the military arm of the Irish Republican Army. quote a senior
Hamas official as stating: "The Izz al-Din al-Qassam Brigade is a separate
armed military wing, which has its own leaders who do not take their orders
from Hamas and do not tell us of their plans in advance."[104] Matthew Levitt
on the other hand argues vocally for the idea that Hamas's welfare
institutions act as a mere façade or front for the financing of terrorism, and
dismisses the idea of two wings as a 'myth'.[100] He cites Sheikh Ahmad Yassin
stating in 1998: "We can not separate the wing from the body. If we do so, the
body will not be able to fly. Hamas is one body."[105]

## Finances and funding

At the 1993 Philadelphia conference, Hamas leaders' statements indicated that
they read George H. W. Bush's outline of a New World Order as embodying a
tacit aim to destroy Islam, and that therefore funding should focus on
enhancing the Islamic roots of Palestinian society and promoting jihad in the
occupying territories.[106]

Hamas's budget, calculated to be roughly US$70 million (2011), is derived in
large part (85%)[107] from foreign, rather than internal Palestinian, sources.
Only two Israeli-Palestinian sources figure in a list seized in 2004, while
the other contributors were donor bodies located in Jordan, Qatar, Kuwait,
Saudi Arabia, Britain, Germany, the United States, United Arab Emirates, Italy
and France. Much of the money raised comes from sources that direct their
assistance to what Hamas describes as its charitable work for Palestinians,
but investments in support of its ideological position are also relevant, with
Persian Gulf States and Saudi Arabia prominent in the latter. Matthew Levitt
states that Hamas also taps money from corporations, criminal organizations
and financial networks that support terror,[108] and is believed to engage in
cigarette and drug smuggling, multimedia copyright infringement and credit
card fraud.[107] Vittori states that, more than other similar organizations,
it is particularly careful about keeping resources for its militant, political
and public works activities separate.[107] The United States, Israel and the
EU have shut down many charities and organs that channel money to Hamas, such
as the Holy Land Foundation for Relief.[109] Between 1992 and 2001 this group
is said to have provided $6.8 million to Palestinian charities of the $57
million collected. By 2001 it was alleged to have given Hamas $13 million, and
was shut down shortly afterwards.[110]

About half of Hamas's funding came from states in the Persian Gulf down to the
mid 2000s. Saudi Arabia supplied half of the Hamas budget of $50 million in
the early 2000s,[111] but, under U.S. pressure, began cut its funding by
cracking down on Islamic charities and private donor transfers to Hamas in
2004,[107] which by 2006 drastically reduced the flow of money from that area.
Iran and Syria, in the aftermath of Hamas's 2006 electoral victory, stepped in
to fill the shortfall.[112][113] Saudi funding, negotiated with third parties
like Egypt, remained supportive of Hamas as a Sunni group but chose to provide
more assistance to the PNA, the electoral loser, when the EU responded to the
outcome by suspending its monetary aid.[114] Iran in the 1980s began by
providing 10% of Hamas's funding, which it increased annually until by the
1990s it supplied $30 million.[111] It accounted for $22 million, over a
quarter of Hamas's budget, by the late 2000s.[107] According to Matthew
Levitt, Iran preferred direct financing to operative groups rather than
charities, requiring video proof of attacks.[107][115] Much of the Iran
funding is said to be channeled through Hezbollah.[107] After 2006 Iran's
willingness to take over the burden of the shortfall created by the drying up
of Saudi funding also reflected the geopolitical tensions between the two,
since, though Shiite, Iran was supporting a Sunni group traditionally closely
linked with the Saudi kingdom.[116] The US imposed sanctions on Iran's Bank
Saderat, alleging it had funneled hundreds of millions to Hamas.[117] The US
has expressed concerns that for Hamas obtains funds through Palestinian and
Lebanese sympathizers of Arab descent in the Foz do Iguaçu area of the tri-
border region of Latin America, an area long associated with arms trading,
drug trafficking, contraband, the manufacture of counterfeit goods, money-
laundering and currency fraud. The State Department add that confirmatory
information of a Hamas operational presence there is lacking.[118]

After 2009, sanctions on Iran made funding difficult, forcing Hamas to rely on
religious donations by individuals in the West Bank, Qatar, and Saudi Arabia.
Funds amounting to tens of millions of dollars raised in the Gulf states were
transferred through the Rafah Border Crossing. These were not sufficient to
cover the costs of governing the Strip and running the al Qassam Brigades, and
when tensions arose with Iran over support of President Assad in Syria, Iran
dropped its financial assistance to the government, restricting its funding to
the military wing, which meant a drop from $150 million in 2012 to $60 million
the following year. A further drop occurred in 2015 when Hamas expressed its
criticisms of Iran's role in the Yemeni Civil War.[119]

## History

Main article: History of Hamas

See also: First Intifada

### Gaza Islamic roots and establishment of Hamas

Hamas rose as an offshoot of the Gaza Mujama al-Islamiya branch of the
Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood,[120][121] which had been actively encouraged by
Israel to expand as a counterweight to the influence of the secular Palestine
Liberation Organization .[16][122][123][124][125] and had since 1973 been
quiescent and non-confrontational towards Israel.[126] Aside from developing
Islamic charities to provide humanitarian assistance to Palestinians, it
emphasized social justice ( _adala_ ) and the subordination of the world to
the sovereignty of God ( _hakmiyya_ ).[96][127] Hamas was founded in
1987,[96][128] soon after the outbreak of the First Intifada, the first
popular uprising against the Israeli occupation. Creating Hamas to participate
in the revolt was regarded as a survival measure to enable the Brotherhood
itself, which refused to fight against Israel,[129] to hold its own against
other competing Palestinian nationalist groups. By forming a military wing
distinct from its social charity organizations, it was hoped that the latter
would be insulated from being targeted by Israel.[130] Co-founder Sheik Ahmed
Yassin was convinced that Israel was endeavouring to destroy Islam, and
concluded that loyal Muslims had a religious obligation into destroy
Israel.[127] The short term goal of Hamas was to liberate Palestine, including
modern-day Israel, from Israeli occupation . The long-term aim sought to
establish an Islamic state from the Jordan River to the Mediterranean
Sea.[131]

### Hamas Charter (1988)

Main article: Hamas Covenant

The foundational document, the Hamas Charter ( _mīthāq ḥarakat_ ), is dated 18
August 1988, and contains bothantisemitic passages, characterizations of
Israeli society as Nazi-like in its cruelty,[132] and irredentist claims that
have never been revoked despite what some observers say are later policy
changes in the organization regarding Israel,[133][134] and the
Jews,[135][136] It declares all of Palestine waqf property endowed by God to
Muslims,[137] with religious coexistence under Islam's wing.[138] The charter
rejects a two-state solution, envisaging no peaceful settlement of the
conflict apart from jihad.[139][140] It states that the movement's aim is to

> raise the banner of Allah over every inch of Palestine, for under the wing
of Islam followers of all religions can coexist in security and safety where
their lives, possessions and rights are concerned' (Article 6)[141][142]

and adds that, 'when our enemies usurp some Islamic lands, jihad becomes a
duty binding on all Muslims,[143] for which the whole of the land is non-
negotiable, a position likened, without the racist sentiments present in the
Hamas charter, to that in the Likud party platform and in movements like Gush
Emunim. For Hamas, to concede territory is seen as equivalent to renouncing
Islam itself.[144][145][146][147][148][149][150][151]

Decades down the line, Hamas's official position changed with regard to a two-
state solution. Khaled Mashaal, its leader, has publicly affirmed the
movement's readiness to accept such a division.[152][153] When Hamas won a
majority in the 2006 Palestinian legislative election, Haniyeh, then
president-elect, sent messages to both George Bush and Israel's leaders asking
to be recognized and offering a long-term truce (hudna), along the 1967 border
lines. No response was forthcoming.[154]

Mousa Marzook said in 2007 that the charter could not be altered because it
would look like a compromise not acceptable to the 'street' and risk
fracturing the party's unity. Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal has stated that the
Charter is "a piece of history and no longer relevant, but cannot be changed
for internal reasons".Ahmed Yousef, senior adviser to Ismail Haniyeh, added in
2011 that it reflected the views of the Elders in the face of a 'relentless
occupation.' The details of its religious and political language had not been
examined within the framework of international law, and an internal committee
review to amend it was shelved out of concern not to offer concessions to
Israel, as had Fatah, on a silver platter.[155] While Hamas representatives
recognize the problem, one official notes that Arafat got very little in
return for changing the PLO Charter under the Oslo Accords, and that there is
agreement that little is gained from a non-violent approach.[156] Richard
Davis says the dismissal by contemporary leaders of its relevance and yet the
suspension of a desire to rewrite it reflects the differing constituencies
Hamas must address, the domestic audience and international relations.[157]
The charter itself is considered an 'historical relic.'[158]

In March 2006, Hamas released its official legislative program. The document
clearly signaled that Hamas could refer the issue of recognizing Israel to a
national referendum. Under the heading "Recognition of Israel," it stated
simply (AFP, 3/11/06): "The question of recognizing Israel is not the
jurisdiction of one faction, nor the government, but a decision for the
Palestinian people." This was a major shift away from their 1988 charter.[159]
A few months later, via University of Maryland's Jerome Segal, the group sent
a letter to U.S. President George W. Bush stating they "don't mind having a
Palestinian state in the 1967 borders", and asked for direct negotiations:
"Segal emphasized that a state within the 1967 borders and a truce for many
years could be considered Hamas's _de facto_ recognition of Israel."[160]

In an April 2008 meeting between Hamas leader Khaled Mashal and former U.S.
President Jimmy Carter, an understanding was reached in which Hamas agreed it
would respect the creation of a Palestinian state in the territory seized by
Israel in the 1967 Six-Day War, provided this were ratified by the Palestinian
people in a referendum. Hamas later publicly offered a long-term truce with
Israel if Israel agreed to return to its 1967 borders and grant the "right of
return" to all Palestinian refugees.[161] In November 2008, Hamas leader
Ismail Haniyeh re-stated that Hamas was willing to accept a Palestinian state
within the 1967 borders, and offered Israel a long-term truce "if Israel
recognized the Palestinians' national rights".[162] In 2009, in a letter to UN
Secretary General Ban Ki-moon, Haniyeh repeated his group's support for a two-
state settlement based on 1967 borders: "We would never thwart efforts to
create an independent Palestinian state with borders [from] June 4, 1967, with
Jerusalem as its capital."[163] On December 1, 2010, Ismail Haniyeh again
repeated, "We accept a Palestinian state on the borders of 1967, with
Jerusalem as its capital, the release of Palestinian prisoners, and the
resolution of the issue of refugees," and "Hamas will respect the results [of
a referendum] regardless of whether it differs with its ideology and
principles."[164]

In February 2012, according to the Palestinian authority, Hamas forswore the
use of violence. Evidence for this was provided by an eruption of violence
from Islamic Jihad in March 2012 after an Israeli assassination of a Jihad
leader, during which Hamas refrained from attacking Israel.[165]
"Israel—despite its mantra that because Hamas is sovereign in Gaza it is
responsible for what goes on there—almost seems to understand," wrote Israeli
journalists Avi Issacharoff and Amos Harel, "and has not bombed Hamas offices
or installations".[166]

Israel has rejected some truce offers by Hamas because it contends the group
uses them to prepare for more fighting rather than peace.[167] _The Atlantic_
magazine columnist Jeffrey Goldberg, along with other analysts, believes Hamas
may be incapable of permanent reconciliation with Israel.[168][169] Mkhaimer
Abusada, a political scientist at Al Azhar University, writes that Hamas talks
"of hudna [temporary ceasefire], not of peace or reconciliation with Israel.
They believe over time they will be strong enough to liberate all historic
Palestine."[170]

###  1990s

Hamas carried out its first attack against Israel in 1989, abducting and
killing two soldiers. The Israel Defense Forces immediately arrested Yassin
and sentenced him to life in prison, and deported 400 Hamas activists,
including Zahar, to South Lebanon, which at the time was occupied by Israel.
During this time Hamas built a relationship with Hezbollah. Hamas's military
branch, the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, was created in 1991.[171] During
the 1990s the al-Qassam Brigades conducted numerous attacks on Israel, with
both civilian and military victims. In April 1993, suicide bombings in the
West Bank began.[172] After the February 1994 massacre by Baruch Goldstein of
30 Muslim civilians in a Hebron mosque, the al-Qassam Brigades began suicide
attacks inside Israel.[173]

In December 1992 Israel responded to the killing of a border police officer by
deporting 415 leading figures of Hamas and Islamic Jihad to Lebanon, which
provoked international condemnation and a unanimous UN Security Council
resolution condemning the action.[174][175] Although the suicide attacks by
the al-Qassam Brigades and other groups violated the 1993 Oslo accords (which
Hamas opposed[176]), Palestinian Authority President Yasser Arafat was
reluctant to pursue the attackers and may have had inadequate means to do
so.[177] Some analysts state that the Palestinian Authority could have stopped
the suicide and other attacks on civilians but refused to do so.[178]
According to the Congressional Research Service, Hamas admitted to having
executed Palestinians accused of collaborating with Israeli authorities in the
1990s. A transcript of a training film by the al-Qassam Brigades tells how
Hamas operatives kidnapped Palestinians accused of collaboration and then
forced confessions before executing them.[17] In 1996, Yahya Ayash, the chief
bombmaker of Hamas and the leader of the West Bank battalion of the Izz ad-Din
al-Qassam Brigades, was assassinated by the Israeli secret service.[177][179]

In September 1997, Israeli agents in Jordan attempted but failed to
assassinate Hamas leader Khaled Mashal, leading to chilled relations between
the two countries and release of Sheikh Yassin, Hamas's spiritual leader, from
Israeli prison. Two years later Hamas was banned in Jordan, reportedly in part
at the request of the United States, Israel, and the Palestinian
Authority.[180] Jordan's King Abdullah feared the activities of Hamas and its
Jordanian allies would jeopardize peace negotiations with Israel, and accused
Hamas of engaging in illegitimate activities within Jordan.[181][182] In mid-
September 1999, authorities arrested Hamas leaders Khaled Mashal and Ibrahim
Ghosheh on their return from a visit to Iran, and charged them with being
members of an illegal organization, storing weapons, conducting military
exercises, and using Jordan as a training base.[181][182][183] Hamas leaders
denied the charges.[180] Mashal was exiled and eventually settled in Syria. He
fled to Qatar in 2012 as a result of the Syrian civil war.[ _citation needed_
]

### Second Intifada

The aftermath of a bus bombing in Haifa in 2003.

Al-Qassam Brigades militants were among the armed groups that launched both
military-style attacks and suicide bombings against Israeli civilian and
military targets during the Second Intifada (also known as the Al-Aqsa
Intifada (Arabic: انتفاضة الأقصى‎, _Intifā ḍat El Aqṣa_; Hebrew: אינתיפאדת אל-
אקצה‎, _Intifādat El-Aqtzah_ ), which began in late September 2000. This
Palestinian uprising against Israeli rule in the occupied territories was much
more violent than the First Intifada. The military and civilian death toll is
estimated at 5500 Palestinians and more than 1100 Israelis, as well as 64
foreigners.[184] A 2007 study of Palestinian suicide bombings during the
second intifada (September 2000 through August 2005) found that about 40
percent were carried out by the al-Qassam Brigades.[185]

The immediate trigger for the uprising is disputed, but a more general cause,
writes U.S. political science professor Jeremy Pressman, was "popular
Palestinian discontent [that] grew during the Oslo peace process because the
reality on the ground did not match the expectations created by the peace
agreements".[186] Hamas would be the beneficiary of this growing discontent in
the 2006 Palestinian Authority legislative elections.

In January 2004, Hamas leader Sheikh Ahmed Yassin said that the group would
end armed resistance against Israel in exchange for a Palestinian state in the
West Bank, Gaza Strip, and east Jerusalem, and that restoring Palestinians'
"historical rights" (relating to the 1948 Palestinian exodus) "would be left
for future generations".[187] On January 25, 2004, senior Hamas official Abdel
Aziz al-Rantissi offered a 10-year truce, or _hudna_ , in return for the
establishment of a Palestinian state and the complete withdrawal by Israel
from the territories captured in the 1967 Six Day War.[187] Al-Rantissi stated
that Hamas had come to the conclusion that it was "difficult to liberate all
our land at this stage, so we accept a phased liberation".[187][188] Israel
immediately dismissed al-Rantissi's statements as insincere and a smokescreen
for military preparations.[188] Yassin was assassinated on March 22, 2004, by
a targeted Israeli air strike,[189] and al-Rantisi was assassinated by a
similar air strike on April 18, 2004.[190]

### 2006 presidential and legislative elections

While Hamas boycotted the 2005 Palestinian presidential election, it did
participate in the 2005 municipal elections organized by Yasser Arafat in the
occupied territories. In those elections it won control of over one third of
Palestinian municipal councils, besting Fatah, which had for long been the
biggest force in Palestinian politics.[191] In its election manifesto for the
2006 Palestinian legislative election, Hamas omitted a call for an end to
Israel, though it did still call for armed struggle against the
occupation.[192][193] Hamas won the 2006 elections, winning 76 of the 132
seats to Fatah's 43.[194] Seen by many as primarily a rejection of the Fatah
government's corruption and ineffectiveness, the Hamas victory seemingly had
brought to an end 40 years of PLO domination of Palestinian
politics.[194][195]

In early February 2006, Hamas offered Israel a 10-year truce "in return for a
complete Israeli withdrawal from the occupied Palestinian territories: the
West Bank, Gaza Strip and East Jerusalem,"[39] and recognition of Palestinian
rights including the "right of return".[196] Mashal added that Hamas was not
calling for a final end to armed operations against Israel, and it would not
impede other Palestinian groups from carrying out such operations.[197] After
the election, the Quartet on the Middle East (the United States, Russia, the
European Union (EU), and the United Nations) stated that assistance to the
Palestinian Authority would only continue if Hamas renounced violence,
recognized Israel, and accepted previous Israeli-Palestinian agreements, which
Hamas refused to do.[198] The Quartet then imposed a freeze on all
international aid to the Palestinian territories.[199] In 2006 after the Gaza
election, Hamas leader sent a letter addressed to George W. Bush where he
among other things declared that Hamas would accept a state on the 1967
borders including a truce. However, the Bush administration did not
reply.[200]

  

### Legislative policy and reforming the judiciary

"Stress the separation between the three powers, the legislative, executive
and judicial; activate the role of the Constitutional Court; re-form the
Judicial Supreme Council and choose its members by elections and on the basis
of qualifications rather than partisan, personal, and social considerations
... ; enact the necessary laws that guarantee the neutrality of general
prosecutor ... [and] laws that will stop any transgression by the executive
power on the constitution".[201]

### Public freedoms and citizen rights

"Achieve equality before the law among citizens in rights and duties; bring
security to all citizens and protect their properties and assure their safety
against arbitrary arrest, torture, or revenge; stress the culture of dialogue
... ; support the press and media institutions and maintain the right of
journalists to access and to publish information; maintain freedom and
independence of professional syndicates and preserve the rights of their
membership".[201]

### Hamas–Fatah conflict

Main articles: Fatah–Hamas conflict and Battle of Gaza (2007)

Hamas rally in Bethlehem

After the formation of the Hamas-led cabinet on March 20, 2006, tensions
between Fatah and Hamas militants progressively rose in the Gaza strip as
Fatah commanders refused to take orders from the government while the
Palestinian Authority initiated a campaign of demonstrations, assassinations
and abductions against Hamas, which led to Hamas responding.[202] Israeli
intelligence warned Mahmoud Abbas that Hamas had planned to kill him at his
office in Gaza. According to a Palestinian source close to Abbas, Hamas
considers president Abbas to be a barrier to its complete control over the
Palestinian Authority and decided to kill him. In a statement to Al Jazeera,
Hamas leader Mohammed Nazzal, accused Abbas of being party to besieging and
isolating the Hamas-led government.[203]

On June 9, 2006, during an Israeli artillery operation, an explosion occurred
on a busy Gaza beach, killing eight Palestinian civilians.[204][205] It was
assumed that Israeli shellings were responsible for the killings, but Israeli
government officials denied this.[206][207] Hamas formally withdrew from its
16-month ceasefire on June 10, taking responsibility for the subsequent Qassam
rocket attacks launched from Gaza into Israel.[208]

On June 25, two Israeli soldiers were killed and another, Gilad Shalit,
captured following an incursion by the Izz ad-Din al-Qassam Brigades, Popular
Resistance Committees and Army of Islam. In response, the Israeli military
launched Operation Summer Rains three days later, to secure the release of the
kidnapped soldier,[209][210][211] arresting 64 Hamas officials. Among them
were 8 Palestinian Authority cabinet ministers and up to 20 members of the
Palestinian Legislative Council,[211] The arrests, along with other events,
effectively prevented the Hamas-dominated legislature from functioning during
most of its term.[212][213] Shalit was held captive until 2011, when he was
released in exchange for 1,027 Palestinian prisoners.[214] Since then, Hamas
has continued building a network of internal and cross-border tunnels,[215]
which are used to store and deploy weapons, shield militants, and facilitate
cross-border attacks. Destroying the tunnels was a primary objective of
Israeli forces in the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict.[216][217]

On February 2007 Saudi-sponsored negotiations in Mecca produced agreement on a
signed by Mahmoud Abbas on behalf of Fatah and Khaled Mashal on behalf of
Hamas. The new government was called on to achieve Palestinian national goals
as approved by the Palestine National Council, the clauses of the Basic Law
and the National Reconciliation Document (the "Prisoners' Document") as well
as the decisions of the Arab summit.[218]

In March 2007, the Palestinian Legislative Council established a national
unity government, with 83 representatives voting in favor and three against.
Government ministers were sworn in by Mahmoud Abbas, the chairman of the
Palestinian Authority, at a ceremony held simultaneously in Gaza and Ramallah.
In June that year, renewed fighting broke out between Hamas and Fatah.[219] In
the course of the June 2007 Battle of Gaza, Hamas exploited the near total
collapse of Palestinian Authority forces in Gaza, to seize[220] control of
Gaza, ousting Fatah officials. President Mahmoud Abbas then dismissed the
Hamas-led Palestinian Authority government.[221] and outlawed the Hamas
militia.[222] At least 600 Palestinians died in fighting between Hamas and
Fatah.[223] Human Rights Watch, a U.S.-based group, accused both sides in the
conflict of torture and war crimes.[224]

Human Rights Watch estimates several hundred Gazans were "maimed" and tortured
in the aftermath of the Gaza War. 73 Gazan men accused of "collaborating" had
their arms and legs broken by "unidentified perpetrators" and 18 Palestinians
accused of collaborating with Israel, who had escaped from Gaza's main prison
compound after Israel bombed the facility, were executed by Hamas security
officials in the first days of the conflict.[225][226] Hamas security forces
attacked hundreds Fatah officials who supported Israel. Human Rights Watch
interviewed one such person:

> There were eight of us sitting there. We were all from Fatah. Then three
masked militants broke in. They were dressed in brown camouflage military
uniforms; they all had guns. They pointed their guns at us and cursed us, then
they began beating us with iron rods, including a 10-year-old boy whom they
hit in the face. They said we were "collaborators" and "unfaithful".

>

> They beat me with iron sticks and gun butts for 15 minutes. They were
yelling: "You are happy that Israel is bombing us!" until people came out of
their houses, and they withdrew.[225]

In March 2012 Mahmoud Abbas stated that there were no political differences
between Hamas and Fatah as they had reached agreement on a joint political
platform and on a truce with Israel. Commenting on relations with Hamas, Abbas
revealed in an interview with Al Jazeera that "We agreed that the period of
calm would be not only in the Gaza Strip, but also in the West Bank," adding
that "We also agreed on a peaceful popular resistance [against Israel], the
establishment of a Palestinian state along the 1967 borders and that the peace
talks would continue if Israel halted settlement construction and accepted our
conditions."[227][228] Progress has stalled, until an April 2014 agreement to
form a compromise unity government, with elections to be held in late
2014.[45]

### 2008–2009 Gaza War

Main articles: Gaza War (2008–09) and United Nations Fact Finding Mission on
the Gaza Conflict

On June 17, 2008, Egyptian mediators announced that an informal truce had been
agreed to between Hamas and Israel.[229][230] Hamas agreed to cease rocket
attacks on Israel, while Israel agreed to allow limited commercial shipping
across its border with Gaza, barring any breakdown of the tentative peace
deal; Hamas also hinted that it would discuss the release of Gilad
Shalit.[231] Israeli sources state that Hamas also committed itself to enforce
the ceasefire on the other Palestinian organizations.[232] Even before the
truce was agreed to, some on the Israeli side were not optimistic about it,
Shin Bet chief Yuval Diskin stating in May 2008 that a ground incursion into
Gaza was unavoidable and would more effectively quell arms smuggling and
pressure Hamas into relinquishing power.[233]

While Hamas was careful to maintain the ceasefire, the lull was sporadically
violated by other groups, sometimes in defiance of Hamas.[232][234][235] For
example, on June 24 Islamic Jihad launched rockets at the Israeli town of
Sderot; Israel called the attack a grave violation of the informal truce, and
closed its border crossings with Gaza.[236] On November 4, 2008, Israeli
forces, in an attempt to stop construction of a tunnel, killed six Hamas
gunmen in a raid inside the Gaza Strip.[237][238] Hamas responded by resuming
rocket attacks, a total of 190 rockets in November according to Israel's
military.[239]

Destroyed building in Rafah, 12 January 2009

With the six-month truce officially expired on December 19, Hamas launched 50
to more than 70 rockets and mortars into Israel over the next three days,
though no Israelis were injured.[240][241] On December 21, Hamas said it was
ready to stop the attacks and renew the truce if Israel stopped its
"aggression" in Gaza and opened up its border crossings.[241][242]

On December 27 and 28, Israel implemented Operation Cast Lead against Hamas.
Egyptian President Hosni Mubarak said "We warned Hamas repeatedly that
rejecting the truce would push Israel to aggression against Gaza." According
to Palestinian officials, over 280 people were killed and 600 were injured in
the first two days of airstrikes.[243] Most were Hamas police and security
officers, though many civilians also died.[243] According to Israel, militant
training camps, rocket-manufacturing facilities and weapons warehouses that
had been pre-identified were hit, and later they attacked rocket and mortar
squads who fired around 180 rockets and mortars at Israeli communities.[244]
Chief of Gaza police force Tawfiq Jabber, head of the General Security Service
Salah Abu Shrakh,[245] senior religious authority and security officer Nizar
Rayyan,[246] and Interior Minister Said Seyam[247] were among those killed
during the fighting. Although Israel sent out thousands of cell-phone messages
urging residents of Gaza to leave houses where weapons may be stored, in an
attempt to minimise civilian casualties,[244] some residents complained there
was nowhere to go because many neighborhoods had received the same
message.[244][248][249] Israeli bombs landed close to civilian structures such
as schools,[250][251] and some alleged that Israel was deliberately targeting
Palestinian civilians.[252]

Israel declared a unilateral ceasefire on January 17, 2009.[253] Hamas
responded the following day by announcing a one-week ceasefire to give Israel
time to withdraw its forces from the Gaza Strip.[254] Israeli, Palestinian,
and third-party sources disagreed on the total casualty figures from the Gaza
war, and the number of Palestinian casualties who were civilians.[255][256] In
November 2010, a senior Hamas official acknowledged that up to 300 fighters
were killed and "In addition to them, between 200 and 300 fighters from the
Al-Qassam Brigades and another 150 security forces were martyred." These new
numbers reconcile the total with those of the Israeli military, which
originally said were 709 "terror operatives" killed.[257][258]

### After the Gaza War

On August 16, 2009, Hamas leader Khaled Mashal stated that the organization is
ready to open dialogue with the Obama administration because its policies are
much better than those of former U.S. president George W. Bush: "As long as
there's a new language, we welcome it, but we want to see not only a change of
language, but also a change of policies on the ground. We have said that we
are prepared to cooperate with the US or any other international party that
would enable the Palestinians to get rid of occupation."[259] Despite this, an
August 30, 2009 speech during a visit to Jordan[260] in which Mashal expressed
support for the Palestinian right of return was interpreted by David Pollock
of the Washington Institute for Near East Policy as a sign that "Hamas has now
clearly opted out of diplomacy."[261] In an interview on May 2010, Mashal said
that if a Palestinian state with real sovereignty was established under the
conditions he set out, on the borders of 1967 with its capital Jerusalem and
with the right of return, that will be the end of the Palestinian resistance,
and then the nature of any subsequent ties with Israel would be decided
democratically by the Palestinians.[262][263] In July 2009, Khaled Mashal,
Hamas's political bureau chief, stated Hamas's willingness to cooperate with a
resolution to the Arab-Israeli conflict, which included a Palestinian state
based on 1967 borders, provided that Palestinian refugees be given the right
to return to Israel and that East Jerusalem be recognized as the new state's
capital.[264]

In 2011, after the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War, Hamas distanced itself
from the Syrian regime and its members began leaving Syria. Where once there
were "hundreds of exiled Palestinian officials and their relatives", that
number shrunk to "a few dozen".[265] In 2012, Hamas publicly announced its
support for the Syrian opposition.[266] This prompted Syrian state TV to issue
a "withering attack" on the Hamas leadership.[267] Khaled Mashal said that
Hamas had been "forced out" of Damascus because of its disagreements with the
Syrian regime.[268] In late October, Syrian Army soldiers shot dead two Hamas
leaders in Daraa refugee camp.[269] On November 5, 2012, the Syrian state
security forces shut down all Hamas offices in the country.[270] In January
2013, another two Hamas members were found dead in Syria's Husseinieh camp.
Activists said the two had been arrested and executed by state security
forces.[271] In 2013, it was reported that the military wing of Hamas had
begun training units of the Free Syrian Army.[272] In 2013, after "several
intense weeks of indirect three-way diplomacy between representatives of
Hamas, Israel, and the Palestinian Authority", no agreement was reached.[273]
Also, intra-Palestinian reconciliation talks stalled and, as a result, during
Obama's visit to Israel, Hamas launched five rocket strikes on Israel.[273] In
November, Isra Almodallal was appointed the first spokeswoman of the
group.[274]

### 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict

Main article: 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict

On 8 July 2014 Israel launched Operation Protective Edge to counter increased
Hamas rocket fire from Gaza. The conflict ended with a permanent cease-fire
after 7 weeks, and more than 2,200 dead. 64 of the dead were Israeli soldiers,
7 were civilians in Israel (from rocket attacks), and 2,101 were killed in
Gaza, of which according to UN OCHA at least 1,460 were civilians. Israel says
1,000 of the dead were militants. Following the conflict, Mahmoud Abbas
president of the Palestinian Authority, accused Hamas of needlessly extending
the fighting in the Gaza Strip, contributing to the high death toll, of
running a "shadow government" in Gaza, and of illegally executing scores of
Palestinians.[275][276][277] Hamas has complained about the slow delivery of
reconstruction materials after the conflict and announced that they were
diverting these materials from civilian uses to build more infiltration
tunnels.[278]

### Reconciliation attempts

In 2016, Hamas began security co-ordination with Egypt to crackdown on Islamic
terrorist organizations in Sinai, in return for economic aid.[279]

On May 2017, Hamas unveiled its new Charter, in attempt to moderate its image.
The charter no longer calls for Israel's destruction, but still calls for
liberation of Palestine and 'confront the Zionist project'. It also confirms
acceptance of the 1967 borders as the basis for establishing a Palestinian
state as well as not being an offshoot of the Muslim Brotherhood.[280][281]

On October 2017, Fatah and Hamas have signed yet another reconciliation
agreement. The partial agreement addresses civil and administrative matters
involving Gaza and the West Bank. Other contentious issues such as national
elections, reform of the Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO) and possible
demilitarization of Hamas will be discussed in the next meeting in November
2017, due to a new step-by-step approach.[282]

## Media

In 2005, Hamas announced its intention to launch an experimental TV channel,
Al-Aqsa TV. The station was launched on January 7, 2006, less than three weeks
before the Palestinian legislative elections. It has shown television
programs, including some children's television, which deliver anti-semitic
messages.[283] Hamas has stated that the television station is "an independent
media institution that often does not express the views of the Palestinian
government headed by Ismail Haniyeh or of the Hamas movement," and that Hamas
does not hold anti-semitic views.[284] Hamas produced several propaganda songs
aimed to scare Israeli citizen including Shock Israel's Security and "Go, call
a Gazan to rip Giv'ati".[285]

### Children's magazine

Main article: Al-Fateh

Al-Fateh ("the conqueror") is the Hamas children's magazine, published
biweekly in London, and also posted in an online website. It began publication
in September 2002, and its 108th issue was released in mid-September 2007. The
magazine features stories, poems, riddles, and puzzles, and states it is for
"the young builders of the future".[286]

According to MEMRI (three of whose seven founding staff had formerly served in
the IDF), the magazine includes incitement to jihad and martyrdom and
glorification of terrorist operations and of their planners and perpetrators.
as well as characterizations of Jews as "murderers of the prophets" and
laudatory descriptions of parents who encourage their sons to kill Jews. In
each issue, a regular feature titled "The Story of a Martyr" presents the
"heroic deeds" of a mujahid from one of the organizations who died in a
suicide operation, including operations against civilians, or who was killed
by the IDF. MEMRI also noted that the magazine includes illustrations of
figures, including child warriors, who embody the ethos of jihad and
martyrdom, presenting them as role models. These include the magazine's
titular character, Al-Fateh ("The Conqueror")—a small boy on a horse
brandishing a drawn scimitar—as well as children carrying guns, and photos of
Hamas fighters launching Qassam rockets.[287][288]

### Al-Aqsa TV

Main article: Al-Aqsa TV

See also: Tomorrow's Pioneers

Al-Aqsa TV is a television channel founded by Hamas.[289] The station began
broadcasting in the Gaza Strip on January 9, 2006.[290][291] Its programming
includes ideologically tinged children's shows, news talk, and religiously
inspired entertainment.[292] According to the Anti-Defamation League, the
station promotes terrorist activity and incites hatred of Jews and
Israelis.[291] Hamas has stated that the television station is "an independent
media institution that often does not express the views of the Palestinian
government headed by Ismail Haniyeh or of the Hamas movement," and that Hamas
does not hold anti-semitic views.[284] Al-Aqsa TV is headed by Fathi Ahmad
Hammad, chairman of al-Ribat Communications and Artistic Productions—a Hamas-
run company that also produces Hamas's radio station, _Voice of al-Aqsa_ , and
its biweekly newspaper, _The Message_.[293]

##  Islamization efforts

### In the Gaza Strip

Main article: Islamization of the Gaza Strip

The gender ideology outlined in the Hamas charter, the importance of women in
the religious-nationalist project of liberation is asserted, while defining
that role as one of manufacturing males and caring for their upbringing and
rearing. This is not so different from Fatah's view of women in the First
Intifada and it also resembles the outlook of Jewish settlers, and over time
it has been subjected to change.[294][295]

In 1989, during the first intifada, a small number of Hamas followers[296]
campaigned for the wearing of the hijab, which is not a part of traditional
women's attire in Palestine,[297] for polygamy, and also insisted women stay
at home and be segregated from men. In the course of this campaign, women who
chose not to wear the hijab were verbally and physically harassed, with the
result that the hijab was being worn 'just to avoid problems on the
streets'.[298] The harassment dropped drastically when, after 18 months UNLU
condemned it,[299] though similar campaigns reoccurred.

Since Hamas took control of the Gaza Strip in 2007, some of its members have
attempted to impose Islamic dress or the hijab head covering on
women.[170][300] Also, the government's "Islamic Endowment Ministry" has
deployed Virtue Committee members to warn citizens of the dangers of immodest
dress, card playing, and dating.[301] However, there are no government laws
imposing dress and other moral standards, and the Hamas education ministry
reversed one effort to impose Islamic dress on students.[170] There has also
been successful resistance to attempts by local Hamas officials to impose
Islamic dress on women.[302]

Hamas officials deny having any plans to impose Islamic law, one legislator
stating that "What you are seeing are incidents, not policy," and that Islamic
law is the desired standard "but we believe in persuasion".[301] The Hamas
education ministry reversed one effort to impose Islamic dress on
students.[170] When the BBC in 2010 interviewed five "middle-class" women in
Gaza City, the subjects generally indicated Hamas attempts to enforce
conservative religious standards of dress had been largely rejected by the
local population, with some expressing concern that the closure of Gaza would
allow the proliferation of extremist enforcement attempts by low-level Hamas
officials, and others indicating they were happy to see Hamas enforcing such
requirements. They also cited examples of leniency by Hamas authorities, such
as allowing widowed women to keep custody of their children so long as they
did not remarry, and other relaxations in the enforcement of Shariah law. One
woman noted that the environment was "not as bad" as during the First
Intifada, when women were subject to public criticism and stonings for failure
to obey conservative Islamic standards of dress. One woman complained that
women were not free to speak their minds or travel alone, and added: "Hamas
want to force themselves onto the people. They want the people to submit to
them, this is their cover. They destroyed the reputation of Islam, by saying
we're doing this because it is religion. This is how they won the
elections."[303]

In 2013, UNRWA canceled its annual marathon in Gaza after Hamas rulers
prohibited women from participating in the race.[304]

### In the West Bank

In 2005, the human rights organization Freemuse released a report titled
"Palestine: Taliban-like attempts to censor music", which said that
Palestinian musicians feared that harsh religious laws against music and
concerts will be imposed since Hamas group scored political gains in the
Palestinian Authority local elections of 2005.[305]

The attempt by Hamas to dictate a cultural code of conduct in the 1980s and
early 1990s led to a violent fighting between different Palestinian sectors.
Hamas members reportedly burned down stores that stocked videos they deemed
indecent and destroyed books they described as "heretical".[306]

In 2005, an outdoor music and dance performance in Qalqiliya were suddenly
banned by the Hamas led municipality, for the reason that such an event would
be forbidden by Islam, or "Haram".[307] The municipality also ordered that
music no longer be played in the Qalqiliya zoo, and mufti Akrameh Sabri issued
a religious edict affirming the municipality decision.[306] In response, the
Palestinian national poet Mahmoud Darwish warned that "There are Taliban-type
elements in our society, and this is a very dangerous
sign."[305][306][308][309]

The Palestinian columnist Mohammed Abd Al-Hamid, a resident of Ramallah, wrote
that this religious coercion could cause the migration of artists, and said
"The religious fanatics in Algeria destroyed every cultural symbol, shattered
statues and rare works of art and liquidated intellectuals and artists,
reporters and authors, ballet dancers and singers – are we going to imitate
the Algerian and Afghani examples?"[306]

### Tayyip Erdoğan's Turkey as a role model

Some Hamas members stated that the model of Islamic government that Hamas
seeks to emulate is that of Turkey under the rule of Tayyip Erdoğan. The
foremost members to distance Hamas from the practices of Taliban and to
publicly support the Erdoğan model were Ahmad Yousef and Ghazi Hamad, advisers
to Prime Minister Hanieh.[310][311] Yusuf, the Hamas deputy foreign minister,
reflected this goal in an interview to a Turkish newspaper, stating that while
foreign public opinion equates Hamas with the Taliban or al-Qaeda, the analogy
is inaccurate. Yusuf described the Taliban as "opposed to everything,"
including education and women's rights, while Hamas wants to establish good
relations between the religious and secular elements of society and strives
for human rights, democracy and an open society.[312] According to professor
Yezid Sayigh of the King's College in London, how influential this view is
within Hamas is uncertain, since both Ahmad Yousef and Ghazi Hamad were
dismissed from their posts as advisers to Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Hanieh
in October 2007.[310] Both have since been appointed to other prominent
positions within the Hamas government. Khaled al-Hroub of the West Bank-based
and anti-Hamas[313] Palestinian daily Al Ayyam added that despite claims by
Hamas leaders that it wants to repeat the Turkish model of Islam, "what is
happening on the ground in reality is a replica of the Taliban model of
Islam."[314]

## Antisemitism and anti-Zionism

See also: Racism in the Palestinian territories

According to academic Esther Webman, antisemitism is not the main tenet of
Hamas ideology, although antisemitic rhetoric is frequent and intense in Hamas
leaflets. The leaflets generally do not differentiate between Jews and
Zionists. In other Hamas publications and interviews with its leaders,
attempts at this differentiation have been made.[315] In 2009 representatives
of the small Jewish sect Neturei Karta met with Hamas leader Ismail Haniyeh in
Gaza, who stated that he held nothing against Jews but only against the state
of Israel.[316] Some commentators have pointed out parallels between Hamas's
youth organization and Hitler Youth.[317] According to writer Tom Doran, Hamas
is not recognized as a neo-Nazi group because its members are not "white
Christians".[318]

Hamas has made conflicting statements about its readiness to recognize Israel.
In 2006 a spokesman signaled readiness to recognize Israel within the 1967
borders. Speaking of requests for Hamas to recognize agreements between the
Palestinian Authority and Israel, senior Hamas member Khaled Suleiman said
that "these agreements are a reality which we view as such, and therefore I
see no problem."[319] Also in 2006, a Hamas official ruled out recognition of
Israel with reference to West and East Germany, which never recognized each
other.[320]

### Hamas Charter (1988)

Main article: Hamas Covenant

  * Article 7 of the Hamas Covenant provides the following quotation, attributed to Muhammad:

> The Day of Judgement will not come about until Moslems fight the Jews
(killing the Jews), when the Jew will hide behind stones and trees. The stones
and trees will say O Moslems, O Abdulla, there is a Jew behind me, come and
kill him. Only the Gharkad tree (evidently a certain kind of tree), would not
do that because it is one of the trees of the Jews.[141]

  * Article 22 states that the French revolution, the Russian revolution, colonialism and both world wars were created by the Zionists or forces supportive of Zionism:

> You may speak as much as you want about regional and world wars. They were
behind World War I, when they were able to destroy the Islamic Caliphate,
making financial gains and controlling resources. They obtained the Balfour
Declaration, formed the League of Nations through which they could rule the
world. They were behind World War II, through which they made huge financial
gains by trading in armaments, and paved the way for the establishment of
their state. It was they who instigated the replacement of the League of
Nations with the United Nations and the Security Council to enable them to
rule the world through them. There is no war going on anywhere, without having
their finger in it.[321]

  * Article 32 of the Covenant refers to an antisemitic forgery, _The Protocols of the Elders of Zion_ :

> Today it is Palestine, tomorrow it will be one country or another. The
Zionist plan is limitless. After Palestine, the Zionists aspire to expand from
the Nile to the Euphrates. When they will have digested the region they
overtook, they will aspire to further expansion, and so on. Their plan is
embodied in _The Protocols of the Elders of Zion_ , and their present conduct
is the best proof of what we are saying.[141]

### Statements by Hamas members and clerics to an Arab audience

In 2008, Imam Yousif al-Zahar of Hamas said in his sermon at the _Katib
Wilayat_ mosque in Gaza that "Jews are a people who cannot be trusted. They
have been traitors to all agreements. Go back to history. Their fate is their
vanishing."[168][322]

Another Hamas legislator and imam, Sheik Yunus al-Astal, discussed a Koranic
verse suggesting that "suffering by fire is the Jews' destiny in this world
and the next." He concluded "Therefore we are sure that the Holocaust is still
to come upon the Jews."[168][322]

Following the rededication of the Hurva Synagogue in Jerusalem in March 2010,
senior Hamas figure al-Zahar called on Palestinians everywhere to observe five
minutes of silence "for Israel's disappearance and to identify with Jerusalem
and the al-Aqsa mosque". He further stated that "Wherever you have been you've
been sent to your destruction. You've killed and murdered your prophets and
you have always dealt in loan-sharking and destruction. You've made a deal
with the devil and with destruction itself – just like your
synagogue."[323][324]

On August 10, 2012, Ahmad Bahr, Deputy Speaker of the Hamas Parliament, stated
in a sermon that aired on _Al-Aqsa TV_ :

> If the enemy sets foot on a single square inch of Islamic land, Jihad
becomes an individual duty, incumbent on every Muslim, male or female. A woman
may set out [on Jihad] without her husband's permission, and a servant without
his master's permission. Why? In order to annihilate those Jews.... O Allah,
destroy the Jews and their supporters. O Allah, destroy the Americans and
their supporters. O Allah, count them one by one, and kill them all, without
leaving a single one.[325][326][327][328]

In an interview with Al-Aqsa TV in September 12, 2012, Marwan Abu Ras, a Hamas
MP, who is also a member of the International Union of Muslim Scholars, stated
(as translated by MEMRI):

> The Jews are behind each and every catastrophe on the face of the Earth.
This is not open to debate. This is not a temporal thing, but goes back to
days of yore. They concocted so many conspiracies and betrayed rulers and
nations so many times that the people harbor hatred towards them....
Throughout history – from Nebuchadnezzar until modern times ... They slayed
the prophets, and so on.... Any catastrophe on the face of this Earth – the
Jews must be behind it.[329]

On December 26, 2012, Senior Hamas official and Jerusalem bureau chief Ahmed
Abu Haliba, called on "all Palestinian factions to resume suicide attacks ...
deep inside the Zionist enemy" and said that "we must renew the resistance to
occupation in any possible way, above all through armed resistance." Abu
Haliba suggested the use of suicide bombings as a response to Israel's plans
to build housing units in East Jerusalem and the West Bank.[330]

In an interview on Lebanese television on July 28, 2014, Hamas spokesman Osama
Hamdan claimed:

> We all remember how the Jews used to slaughter Christians, in order to mix
their blood in their holy matzos. This is not a figment of imagination or
something taken from a film. It is a fact, acknowledged by their own books and
by historical evidence. It happened everywhere, here and there.[331]

### Statements by Hamas members and clerics to an international audience

In an interview with _CBS This Morning_ in July 27, 2014, Hamas leader Khaled
Meshaal stated:

> We are not fanatics. We are not fundamentalists. We are not actually
fighting the Jews because they are Jews per se. We do not fight any other
races. We fight the occupiers.[332]

On January 8, 2012, during a visit to Tunis, Gazan Hamas PM Ismail Haniyeh
told The Associated Press on that he disagrees with the anti-Semitic slogans.
"We are not against the Jews because they are Jews. Our problem is with those
occupying the land of Palestine," he said. "There are Jews all over the world,
but Hamas does not target them."[333] In response to a statement by
Palestinian Authority leader Mahmoud Abbas that Hamas preferred non-violent
means and had agreed to adopt "peaceful resistance," Hamas contradicted Abbas.
According to Hamas spokesman Sami Abu-Zuhri, "We had agreed to give popular
resistance precedence in the West Bank, but this does not come at the expense
of armed resistance."[334]

In May 2009, senior Hamas MP Sayed Abu Musameh said, "in our culture, we
respect every foreigner, especially Jews and Christians, but we are against
Zionists, not as nationalists but as fascists and racists."[335] In the same
interview, he also said, "I hate all kinds of weapons. I dream of seeing every
weapon from the atomic bomb to small guns banned everywhere." In January 2009,
Gazan Hamas Health Minister Basim Naim published a letter in _The Guardian_ ,
stating that Hamas has no quarrel with Jewish people, only with the actions of
Israel.[336] In October 1994, in a response to Isreael's crackdown on Hamas
militants following a suicide bombing on a Tel Aviv bus, Hamas promised
retaliation: "Rabin must know that Hamas loves death more than Rabin and his
soldiers love life."[337] The statement added that "Hamas will not hesitate to
retaliate severely against any attempt to harm our leaders."

### Statements on the Holocaust

Hamas has been explicit in its Holocaust denial. In reaction to the Stockholm
conference on the Jewish Holocaust, held in late January 2000, Hamas issued a
press release that it published on its official website, containing the
following statements from a senior leader:

> This conference bears a clear Zionist goal, aimed at forging history by
hiding the truth about the so-called Holocaust, which is an alleged and
invented story with no basis. (...) The invention of these grand illusions of
an alleged crime that never occurred, ignoring the millions of dead European
victims of Nazism during the war, clearly reveals the racist Zionist face,
which believes in the superiority of the Jewish race over the rest of the
nations. (...) By these methods, the Jews in the world flout scientific
methods of research whenever that research contradicts their racist
interests.[338]

In August 2003, senior Hamas official Dr Abd Al-Aziz Al-Rantisi wrote in the
Hamas newspaper _Al-Risala_ that the Zionists encouraged murder of Jews by the
Nazis with the aim of forcing them to immigrate to Palestine.[339]

In 2005, Khaled Mashal called Mahmoud Ahmadinejad's December 14, 2005
statements on the Holocaust that Europeans had "created a myth in the name of
Holocaust"[340]) as "courageous".[341] Later in 2008, Basim Naim, the minister
of health in the Hamas-led Palestinian Authority government in Gaza countered
holocaust denial, and said "it should be made clear that neither Hamas nor the
Palestinian government in Gaza denies the Nazi Holocaust. The Holocaust was
not only a crime against humanity but one of the most abhorrent crimes in
modern history. We condemn it as we condemn every abuse of humanity and all
forms of discrimination on the basis of religion, race, gender or
nationality."[342]

In an open letter to Gaza Strip UNRWA chief John Ging published August 20,
2009, the movement's Popular Committees for Refugees called the Holocaust "a
lie invented by the Zionists," adding that the group refused to let Gazan
children study it.[343] Hamas leader Younis al-Astal continued by saying that
having the Holocaust included in the UNRWA curriculum for Gaza students
amounted to "marketing a lie and spreading it". Al-Astal continued "I do not
exaggerate when I say this issue is a war crime, because of how it serves the
Zionist colonizers and deals with their hypocrisy and lies."[344][345]

In February 2011, Hamas voiced opposition to UNRWA's teaching of the Holocaust
in Gaza. According to Hamas, "Holocaust studies in refugee camps is a
contemptible plot and serves the Zionist entity with a goal of creating a
reality and telling stories in order to justify acts of slaughter against the
Palestinian people."[346][347] In July 2012, Fawzi Barhoum, a Hamas spokesman,
denounced a visit by Ziad al-Bandak, an adviser to Palestinian Authority
President Mahmoud Abbas, to the Auschwitz death camp, saying it was
"unjustified" and "unhelpful" and only served the "Zionist occupation" while
coming "at the expense of a real Palestinian tragedy". He also called the
Holocaust an "alleged tragedy" and "exaggerated".[348][349][350][351] In
October 2012, Hamas said that they were opposed to teaching about the
Holocaust in Gaza Strip schools run by the UN Relief and Works Agency. The
Refugee Affairs Department of Hamas said that teaching the Holocaust was a
"crime against the issue of the refugees that is aimed at canceling their
right of return".[352]

## Violence and terrorism

Main article: Criticism of Hamas

Palestinian rocket attacks  
on Israel  
---  
  
A rocket fired from the Gaza Strip  
into Israel, December 2008.  
  
By year  
  
  * 2001
  * 2002–2006
  * 2007
  * 2008

  * 2008 ceasefire
  * Gaza War
  * 2009
  * 2010

  * 2011
  * 2012
  * 2013
  * 2014

  * 2015
  * 2016
  * 2017

  
Groups responsible  
  
  * Fatah
  * Hamas
  * Islamic Jihad

  * PFLP
  * DFLP
  * PRC

  * Ansar al-Sunna
  * Force 17

  * Army of Islam
  * Tawhid wal-Jihad

  * Abdullah Azzam Brigades

  * Mujahideen Shura Council

  
Rocket types  
  
  * Mortar
  * Qassam
  * Al-Quds

  * Katyusha
  * Grad
  * Fajr-5

  
Cities hit  
  
  * Ashdod
  * Ashkelon
  * Beersheba

  * Eilat
  * Gedera
  * Kiryat Gat

  * Kiryat Malakhi
  * Netivot

  * Sderot
  * Ofakim
  * Yavne

  * Tel Aviv
  * Jerusalem

  
Regional Council areas hit  
  
Hof Ashkelon

  * (Karmia
  * Netiv HaAsara

  * Yad Mordechai
  * Zikim)

Eshkol

  * (Nir Oz
  * Nirim
  * Yesha)

Sha'ar HaNegev

  * (Kfar Aza
  * Nahal Oz
  * Nir Am)

Sdot Negev

  * (Alumim
  * Sa'ad)

  * Merhavim* Be'er Tuvia * Yoav

  * Bnei Shimon* Gush Etzion

  
Settlements hit (evacuated)  
  
  * Atzmona
  * Dugit
  * Elei Sinai

  * Gadid
  * Ganei Tal
  * Katif

  * Kfar Darom
  * Morag

  * Netzarim
  * Netzer Hazani

  * Neve Dekalim
  * Nisanit

  * Rafiah Yam
  * Slav

  
Defense and response  
  
  * Civil defense in Israel

  * Red Color
  * Iron Dome
  * ZAKA

  
See also  
  
  * Rocket attacks on Eilat

  * Lebanese rocket attacks on Israel

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
Hamas has used both political activities and violence in pursuit of its goals.
For example, while politically engaged in the 2006 Palestinian Territories
parliamentary election campaign, Hamas stated in its election manifesto that
it was prepared to use "armed resistance to end the occupation".[353]

From 2000 to 2004, Hamas was responsible for killing nearly 400 Israelis and
wounding more than 2,000 in 425 attacks, according to the Israeli Ministry of
Foreign Affairs. From 2001 through May 2008, Hamas launched more than 3,000
Qassam rockets and 2,500 mortar attacks into Israel.[354]

### Attacks on civilians

In the first years of the First Intifada (1987–1993), Hamas violence was
directed first at collaborators with Israel and at individuals it considered
moral deviants, and then later at the Israeli military.[355] A new direction
began with the formation of the al-Qassam Brigades militia in 1992, and in
1993 suicide attacks began against Israeli targets on the West Bank.[356]

Aftermath of 1996 Jaffa Road bus bombings in which 26 people were killed

The first such attack occurred on April 16, 1993, when an al-Qassam Brigades
operative detonated explosives in a car he parked next to two buses, one
military and one civilian, in the West Bank town of Mehola, killing a
Palestinian civilian and wounding 8 Israeli soldiers.[357] After the February
1994 massacre by Baruch Goldstein of 30 Muslim civilians in a Hebron mosque,
the al-Qassam Brigades expanded suicide attacks to target primarily
civilians.[173] The first of the suicide bombings that targeted civilians was
at Afula on April 16, 1994, when a suicide bomber detonated an explosives-
laden car next to a bus, killing nine (including the bomber) and wounding 50.
The most deadly suicide bombing was an attack on a Netanya hotel on March 27,
2002, in which 30 people were killed and 140 were wounded. The attack has also
been referred to as the Passover massacre since it took place on the first
night of the Jewish festival of Passover at a Seder.

Hamas has defended suicide attacks as a legitimate aspect of its asymmetric
warfare against Israel. In 2003, according to Stephen Atkins, Hamas resumed
suicide bombings in Israel as a retaliatory measure after the failure of peace
talks and an Israeli campaign targeting members of the upper echelon of the
Hamas leadership.,[28] but they are considered as crimes against humanity
under international law.[358][359] In a 2002 report, Human Rights Watch stated
that Hamas leaders "should be held accountable" for "war crimes and crimes
against humanity" committed by the al-Qassam Brigades.[360][361][362]

In May 2006 Israel arrested a top Hamas official, Ibrahim Hamed, who Israeli
security officials alleged was responsible for dozens of suicide bombings and
other attacks on Israelis.[363] Hamed's trial on those charges has not yet
concluded.[364] In 2008, Hamas explosives engineer Shihab al-Natsheh organized
a deadly suicide bombing in Dimona.[365][366]

Since 2002, paramilitary soldiers of al-Qassam Brigades and other groups have
used homemade Qassam rockets to hit Israeli towns in the Negev, such as
Sderot. Al-Qassam Brigades was estimated in 2007 to have launched 22% of the
rocket and mortar attacks,[367] which killed fifteen people between the years
2000 and 2009 (see Palestinian rocket attacks on Israel).[368] The
introduction of the _Qassam-2_ rocket in 2008 enabled Palestinian paramilitary
groups to reach, from Gaza, such Israeli cities such as Ashkelon.[369]

In 2008, Hamas leader Khaled Mashal, offered that Hamas would attack only
military targets if the IDF would stop causing the deaths of Palestinian
civilians.[370] Following a June 19, 2008 ceasefire, the al-Qassam Brigades
ended its rocket attacks and arrested Fatah militants in Gaza who had
continued sporadic rocket and mortar attacks against Israel. The al-Qassam
Brigades resumed the attacks after the November 4 Israeli incursion into
Gaza.[232][371]

On 15 June 2014, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu accused Hamas of
involvement in the kidnapping of three Israeli teenagers (including one who
held American citizenship), saying "This has severe repercussions."[372] On 20
July 2014, nearly two weeks into Operation Protective Edge, Netanyahu in an
interview with CNN described Hamas as "genocidal terrorists."[373]

On 5 August 2014 Israel announced that Israeli security forces arrested Hussam
Kawasme, in Shuafat, in connection with the murders.[374] During
interrogation, Kawasme admitted to being the mastermind behind the attack, in
addition to securing the funding from Hamas.[375] Officials have stated that
additional people arrested in connection with the murders are still being
held, but no names have been released.[376]

On 20 August, Saleh al-Arouri, a Hamas leader in exile in Turkey, claimed
responsibility for the kidnapping of the three Israeli teens. He delivered an
address on behalf of Khaled Mashal at the conference of the International
Union of Muslim Scholars in Istanbul, a move that might reflect a desire by
Hamas to gain leverage.[377] In it he said: "Our goal was to ignite an
intifada in the West Bank and Jerusalem, as well as within the 1948 borders...
Your brothers in the Al-Qassam Brigades carried out this operation to support
their imprisoned brothers, who were on a hunger strike... The mujahideen
captured these settlers in order to have a swap deal."[378] Hamas political
leader Khaled Mashal accepted that members of Hamas were responsible, stating
that he knew nothing of it in advance and that what the leadership knew of the
details came from reading Israeli reports.[379] Meshaal, who has headed
Hamas's exiled political wing since 2004, has denied being involved in the
"details" of Hamas "military issues", but "justified the killings as a
legitimate action against Israelis on "occupied" lands."[380]

Hamas suicide attacks on Israeli civilians have largely disappeared since
2005; this has coincided with an increase in rocket attacks. One analysis
suggests that the decline in suicide attacks is not motivated by any lack of
supplies or volunteers to carry out such operations, by enhanced Israeli
security measures such as the West Bank barrier (if Israeli actions were the
reason, one would expect to see an equal decline in suicide attacks by all
Palestinian factions, which is not observed), or by a newfound desire for
reconciliation with Israel on the part of Hamas. Rather, suicide bombings
provoked targeted killings that decimated the leadership of Hamas, whereas
rocket attacks have elicited weaker Israeli reprisals that have tended to harm
the Palestinian population as a whole more than Hamas (such as the blockade of
the Gaza Strip)—thereby paradoxically increasing Hamas's popular support.[381]

### Rocket attacks on Israel

Rocket attacks by Hamas have been condemned by Human rights organizations as
war crimes, both because they usually take aim at civilians and because the
weapons' inaccuracy would disproportionately endanger civilians even if
military targets were chosen. After Operation Pillar of Defense, Human Rights
Watch stated that armed Palestinian groups fired hundreds of rockets at
Israeli cities, violating international humanitarian law, and that statements
by Palestinian groups that they deliberately targeted Israeli civilians
demonstrated an "intent to commit war crimes". HRW's Middle East director
Sarah Leah Whitson said that Palestinian groups made clear that "harming
civilians was their aim" and said that launching rockets at populated areas
had no legal justification. International humanitarian law prohibits
deliberate attacks on civilians and intentional violations can be war
crimes.[382]

According to Human Rights Watch, Hamas and other Palestinian armed groups have
launched thousands of rockets into Israel since 2001, killing 15 civilians,
wounding many more, and posing an ongoing threat to the nearly 800,000 Israeli
civilians who live and work in the weapons' range. Hamas officials have said
that the rockets were aimed only at military targets, saying that civilian
casualties were the "accidental result" of the weapons' poor quality.
According to Human Rights Watch, statements by Hamas leaders suggest that the
purpose of the rocket attacks was indeed to strike civilians and civilian
objects. From January 2009, following Operation Cast Lead, Hamas largely
stopped launching rocket attacks on Israel and has on at least two occasions
arrested members of other groups who have launched rockets, "showing that it
has the ability to impose the law when it wants".[383] In February 2010, Hamas
issued a statement regretting any harm that may have befallen Israeli
civilians as a result of Palestinian rocket attacks during the Gaza war. It
maintained that its rocket attacks had been aimed at Israeli military targets
but lacked accuracy and hence sometimes hit civilian areas. Israel responded
that Hamas had boasted repeatedly of targeting and murdering civilians in the
media.[384]

According to one report, commenting on the 2014 conflict, "nearly all the
2,500–3,000 rockets and mortars Hamas has fired at Israel since the start of
the war seem to have been aimed at towns", including an attack on "a kibbutz
collective farm close to the Gaza border", in which an Israeli child was
killed.[385] Former Israeli Lt. Col. Jonathan D. Halevi stated that "Hamas has
expressed pride in aiming long-range rockets at strategic targets in Israel
including the nuclear reactor in Dimona, the chemical plants in Haifa, and
Ben-Gurion Airport", which "could have caused thousands" of Israeli casualties
"if successful".[386]

In July 2008 Barack Obama, then the Democratic presidential candidate, said:
"If somebody was sending rockets into my house, where my two daughters sleep
at night, I'm going to do everything in my power to stop that, and I would
expect Israelis to do the same thing."[387] On December 28, 2008, Secretary of
State Condoleezza Rice said in a statement: "the United States strongly
condemns the repeated rocket and mortar attacks against Israel."[388] On March
2, 2009, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton condemned the attacks.[389]

### Attempts to derail 2010 peace talks

See also: 2010 Palestinian militancy campaign

In 2010, Hamas, who have been actively sidelined from the peace talks by
Israel, spearheaded a coordinated effort by 13 Palestinian militant groups, in
attempt to derail the stalled peace talks between Israel and Mahmoud Abbas,
President of the Palestinian Authority. According to the Israeli Coordinator
of Government Activities in the Territories Major Gen. Eitan Dangot, Israel
seeks to work with Salam Fayyad, to help revive the Palestinian economy, and
hopes to ease restrictions on the Gaza Strip further, "while somehow
preventing the Islamic militants who rule it from getting credit for any
progress". According to Dangot, Hamas must not be seen as ruling successfully
or be allowed to "get credit for a policy that would improve the lives of
people".[390] The campaign consists of attacks against Israelis in which,
according to a Hamas declaration in early September, "all options are
open".[391][392][393][394] The participating groups also include Palestinian
Islamic Jihad, the Popular Resistance Committees and an unnamed splinter group
of Fatah.[395]

As part of the campaign, on August 31, 2010, 4 Israeli settlers, including a
pregnant woman, were killed by Hamas militants while driving on Route 60 near
the settlement Kiryat Arba, in the West bank. According to witnesses,
militants opened fire on the moving vehicle, but then "approached the car" and
shot the occupants in their seats at "close range". The attack was described
by Israeli sources as one of the "worst" terrorist acts in
years.[396][397][398] A senior Hamas official said that Israeli settlers in
the West Bank are legitimate targets since "they are an army in every sense of
the word".[399][400]

### Themes of martyrdom

See also: Martyrdom in Islam

According to a translation by Palestinian Media Watch, in 2008, Fathi Hamad, a
member of the Palestinian Legislative Council, stated on Al-Aqsa TV, "For the
Palestinian people death became an industry, at which women excel and so do
all people on this land: the elderly excel, the Jihad fighters excel, and the
children excel. Accordingly (Palestinians) created a human shield of women,
children, the elderly and the Jihad fighters against the Zionist bombing
machine, as if they were saying to the Zionist enemy: 'We desire death as you
desire life.'"[401]

In 2010, Hamas speaker Ahmad Bahr praised the virtues of martyrdom and Jihad,
and said that 2.5 million black-eyed virgins were waiting in the Garden of
Eden, which could be entered only by prophets, by the righteous, and by
martyrs. He continued by saying that nobody on Earth "will be able to confront
the resistance, or to confront the mujahideen, those who worship Allah and
seek martyrdom".[402]

### Guerrilla warfare

Hamas anti-tank rockets, captured by Israel Defense Forces during Operation
Protective Edge

Hamas has made great use of guerrilla tactics in the Gaza Strip and to a
lesser degree the West Bank.[403] It has successfully adapted these techniques
over the years since its inception. According to a 2006 report by rival Fatah
party, Hamas had smuggled between several hundred and 1,300 tons of advanced
rockets, along with other weaponry, into Gaza.[403]

Hamas has used IEDs and anti-tank rockets against the IDF in Gaza. The latter
include standard RPG-7 warheads and home-made rockets such as the Al-Bana, Al-
Batar and Al-Yasin. The IDF has a difficult, if not impossible time trying to
find hidden weapons caches in Palestinian areas — this is due to the high
local support base Hamas enjoys.[404]

### Extrajudicial killings of rivals

In addition to killing Israeli civilians and armed forces, Hamas has also
murdered suspected Palestinian Israel collaborators and Fatah rivals.[405]
Hundreds of Palestinians were executed by both Hamas and Fatah during the
First Intifada.[406] In the wake of the 2006 Israeli conflict with Gaza, Hamas
was accused of systematically rounding up, torturing and summarily executing
Fatah supporters suspected of supplying information to Israel. Human Rights
Watch estimates several hundred Gazans were "maimed" and tortured in the
aftermath of the conflict. Seventy-three Gazan men accused of "collaborating"
had their arms and legs broken by "unidentified perpetrators" and 18
Palestinians accused of helping Israel were executed by Hamas security
officials in the first days of the conflict.[225][226][407] In November 2012,
Hamas's Izzedine al-Qassam brigade publicly executed six Gaza residents
accused of collaborating with Israel. According to the witnesses, six alleged
informers were shot dead one by one in Gaza City, while the corpse of the
sixth victim was tied by a cable to the back of a motorcycle and dragged
through the streets.[408] In 2013, Human Rights Watch issued a statement
condemning Hamas for not investigating and giving a proper trial to the 6 men.
Their statement was released the day before Hamas issued a deadline for
"collaborators" to turn themselves in, or they will be pursued "without
mercy".[409] In August 2014, during the 2014 Israel-Gaza conflict, at least 22
accused collaborators were executed by Hamas shortly after 3 of its commanders
were assassinated by Israeli forces.[410] An Israeli source denied that any of
the commanders had been targeted on the basis of human intelligence.[411]

Frequent killings of unarmed people have also occurred during Hamas-Fatah
clashes.[412][413] NGOs have cited a number of summary executions as
particular examples of violations of the rules of warfare, including the case
of Muhammad Swairki, 28, a cook for Palestinian Authority Chairman Mahmoud
Abbas's presidential guard, who was thrown to his death, with his hands and
legs tied, from a 15-story apartment building in Gaza City.[414] Hamas
security forces reportedly shoot and torture Palestinians who opposed Hamas
rule in Gaza.[225] In one case, a Palestinian had criticized Hamas in a
conversation on the street with some friends. Later that day, more than a
dozen armed men with black masks and red kaffiyeh took the man from his home,
and brought him to a solitary area where they shot him three times in the
lower legs and ankles. The man told Human Rights Watch that he was not
politically active.[225]

On August 14, 2009, Hamas fighters stormed the Mosque of cleric Abdel-Latif
Moussa.[415] The cleric was protected by at least 100 fighters from Jund Ansar
Allah ("Army of the Helpers of God"), an Islamist group with links to Al-
Qaeda. The resulting battle left at least 13 people dead, including Moussa and
6 Hamas fighters, and 120 people injured.[416] According to Palestinian
president Mahmoud Abbas, during 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, Hamas killed more
than 120 Palestinian youths for defying house arrest imposed on them by Hamas,
in addition to 30–40 Palestinians killed by Hamas in extrajudicial executions
after accusing them of being collaborators with Israel.[417] Referring to the
killing of suspected collaborators, a Shin Bet official stated that "not even
one" of those executed by Hamas provided any intelligence to Israel, while the
Shin Bet officially "confirmed that those executed during Operation Protective
Edge had all been held in prison in Gaza in the course of the
hostilities".[411]

### 2011–2013 Sinai insurgency

See also: Sinai insurgency

Hamas has been accused of providing weapons, training and fighters for Sinai-
based insurgent attacks,[418][419] although Hamas strongly denies the
allegations, calling them a smear campaign aiming to harm relations with
Egypt.[418] According to the Egyptian Army, since the ouster of Egypt's
Muslim-Brotherhood president Mohamed Morsi, over 600 Hamas members have
entered the Sinai Peninsula through smuggling tunnels.[420] In addition,
several weapons used in Sinai's insurgent attacks are being traced back to
Hamas in the Gaza Strip, according to the army.[420] The four leading
insurgent groups in the Sinai have all reportedly maintained close ties with
the Gaza Strip.[421] Hamas is also accused of helping Morsi and other high-
ranking Egyptian Muslim Brotherhood members break out of the Wadi Natroun
prison in Cairo during the 2011 revolution.[422] Hamas called the accusation a
"dangerous development".[423] Egyptian authorities stated that the 2011
Alexandria bombing was carried out by the Gaza-based Army of Islam, which has
received sanctuary from Hamas and earlier collaborated in the capture of Gilad
Shalit.[421][424][425][426] Army of Islam members linked to the August 2012
Sinai attack have reportedly sought refuge in the Gaza Strip.[421] Egypt
stated that Hamas directly provided logistical support to the Muslim
Brotherhood militants who carried out the December 2013 Mansoura bombing.[427]

### International designations as a terrorist organization

Main article: International Positions on the Nature of Hamas

Hamas, together with several charities it runs,[428] has been designated by
several governments and some academics as a terrorist organization. Others
regard Hamas as a complex organization with terrorism as only one
component.[429][430] Israel outlawed Hamas in September 1989[431] The United
States followed suit in 1995, as did Canada in November 2002.[432] The
European Union outlawed Hamas's military wing in 2001 and included Hamas in
its list of terrorist organizations in 2003,[433] which Hamas successfully
challenged in the courts,[434] and continued to do so under American and
Israeli pressure.[435] The basis of Hamas's challenge to the EU classification
in 2007 was that it was drawn up on the basis of media reports, rather than
grounded in any analysis of Hamas's history. In July 2017, the European Court
of Justice overruled this challenge, citing that the evidence of media reports
was only used for keeping Hamas on the list, rather than to add it to the list
in the first place.[436]

The European General Court found in favour of Hamas in 2014, though the
verdict was appealed by the EU countries. In September 2016 a legal advisor to
the European Court of Justice, Eleanor Sharpston, provided an advisory
opinion, in favour of cancelling the listing of Hamas as a terrorist
organization. She argued that the determination originally adopted was flawed,
and that the EU cannot "rely on facts and evidence found in press articles and
information from the internet" in order to list organizations as
terrorists.[437] Egypt,[438] Saudi Arabia,[439] Japan,[440] New Zealand,[441]
Australia and the United Kingdom have designated the military wing of Hamas as
a terrorist organization.[442] The organization is banned in Jordan.[443] It
is not regarded as a terrorist organization by Iran,[444] Russia,[445]
Norway,[446] Switzerland,[447] Turkey, China,[448] and Brazil.[449]

## Criticism

### Human shields

A Hamas rocket launch site and its civilian surroundings.

After Operation Pillar of Defense, Human Rights Watch stated that Palestinian
groups had endangered civilians by "repeatedly fired rockets from densely
populated areas, near homes, businesses, and a hotel" and noted that under
international law, parties to a conflict may not to place military targets in
or near densely populated areas. One rocket was launched close to the Shawa
and Housari Building, where various Palestinian and international media have
offices; another was fired from the yard of a house near the Deira
Hotel.[382][450] _New York Times_ journalist Steven Erlanger reported that
"Hamas rocket and weapons caches, including rocket launchers, have been
discovered in and under mosques, schools and civilian homes."[451] Another
report published by Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center revealed
that Hamas used close to 100 mosques to store weapons and as launch-pads to
shoot rockets. The report contains testimony from variety Palestinian sources,
including a Hamas militant Sabhi Majad Atar, who said he was taught how to
shoot rockets from inside a mosque.[452] Hamas has also been criticized by
Israeli officials for blending into or hiding among the Palestinian civilian
population During the 2008–2009 Israel–Gaza conflict.[453] The Israeli
government published what it said was video evidence of human shield tactics
by Hamas.[454] Israel said that Hamas frequently used mosques and school
yards[455] as hideouts and places to store weapons,[456][457] and that Hamas
militants stored weapons in their homes, making it difficult to ensure that
civilians close to legitimate military targets are not hurt during Israeli
military operations.[458] Israeli officials also accused the Hamas leadership
of hiding under Shifa Hospital during the conflict, using the patients inside
to deter an Israeli attack.[451][459]

The Israeli government filed a report entitled "Gaza Operations Investigation:
Second Update" to the United Nations accusing Hamas of exploiting its rules of
engagement by shooting rockets and launching attacks within protected civilian
areas.[460][461][462] Israel says 12,000 rockets and mortars were fired at it
between 2000 and 2008—nearly 3,000 in 2008 alone.[463] In one case, an errant
Israeli mortar strike killed dozens of people near a UN school. Hamas said
that the mortar killed 42 people and left dozens wounded. Israel said that
Hamas militants had launched a rocket from a yard adjacent to the school and
one mortar of three rounds hit the school, due to a GPS error. According to
the Israeli military probe, the remaining two rounds hit the yard used to
launch rockets into Israel, killing two members of Hamas's military wing who
fired the rockets.[464] Human Right Watch called Hamas to "publicly renounce"
the rocket attacks against Israeli civilians and hold those responsible to
account. Human Right Watch program director Iain Levine said the attacks by
Hamas were "unlawful and unjustifiable, and amount to war crimes", and accused
Hamas of putting Palestinians at risk by launching attacks from built-up
areas.[463] Hamas spokesman relied that the report was "biased" and he denied
that Hamas uses human shields.[463]

Human Rights Watch investigated 19 incidents involving 53 civilian deaths in
Gaza that Israel said were the result of Hamas fighting in densely populated
areas and did not find evidence for existence of Palestinian fighters in the
areas at the time of the Israeli attack. In other cases where no civilians had
died, the report concluded that Hamas may have deliberately fired rockets from
areas close to civilians.[465] HRW also investigated 11 deaths that Israel
said were civilians being used as human shields by Hamas. HRW found no
evidence that the civilians were used as human shields, nor had they been shot
in crossfire.[466] The Israeli 'human shields' charge against Hamas was called
"full of holes" by _The National_ (UAE), which stated that only Israel accused
Hamas of using human shields during the conflict, though Hamas "may be guilty"
of "locating military objectives within or near densely populated areas" and
for "deliberately firing indiscriminate weapons into civilian populated
areas".[467]

On July 8, 2014, Hamas's spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri encouraged the "policy of
people confronting the Israeli warplanes with their bare chests", saying it
has proven itself.[468] One survey of Gazan residents addressed the subject of
human shields during the 2014 war, with respondents issuing statements such as
"People received warnings from the Israelis and tried to evacuate...Hamas shot
some of those people...the rest were forced to return to their homes and get
bombed"; "Hamas imposed a curfew: anyone walking out in the street was shot
without being asked any questions. That way Hamas made sure people had to stay
in their homes even if they were about to get bombed"; and "My father received
a text-message from the Israeli army warning him that our area was going to be
bombed, and Hamas prevented us from leaving."[469] Israeli soldiers recounted
"Suddenly, a small boy appeared, and the terrorist grabbed him and escaped
with him";[470] "I saw with my own eyes someone using another person, a woman,
as a shield...And I can see very clearly that the woman doesn't want to be
there and he's pulling her with him";[471] and "We even found explosives in
nurseries. The whole neighborhood was practically a terrorist base."[472]

Israel has accused Hamas of using children as human shields. The Israeli
government released video footage in which it claims two militants are shown
grabbing a young boy's arm from behind holding him to walk in front of them
toward a group of people waiting near a wall. The IDF argues the militants
were placing the boy between themselves and an Israeli sniper. The second
scene shows an individual, described as a terrorist, grabbing a school boy off
of a floor, where he is hiding behind a column from IDF fire, and using him as
a human shield to walk to a different location.[473] After 15 alleged
militants sought refuge in a mosque from Israeli forces, the BBC reported that
Hamas radio instructed local women to go the mosque to protect the militants.
Two women were later killed when Israeli forces opened fire.[474]

In November 2006, the Israeli Air Force warned Muhammad Weil Baroud, commander
of the Popular Resistance Committees who are accused of launching rockets into
Israeli territory, to evacuate his home in a Jabalya refugee camp apartment
block in advance of a planned Israeli air strike. Baroud responded by calling
for volunteers to protect the apartment block and nearby buildings and,
according to _The Jerusalem Post_ , hundreds of local residents, mostly women
and children, responded. Israel suspended the air strike. Israel termed the
action an example of Hamas using human shields.[475] In response to the
incident, Hamas proclaimed: 'We won. From now on we will form human chains
around every house threatened with demolition.'"[476] In a November 22 press
release, Human Rights Watch condemned Hamas, stating: "There is no excuse for
calling civilians to the scene of a planned attack. Whether or not the home is
a legitimate military target, knowingly asking civilians to stand in harm's
way is unlawful."[477] Following criticism, Human rights Watch issued a
statement saying that their initial assessment of the situation was in error.
They stated that, on the basis of available evidence, the home demolition was
in fact an administrative act, viewed in the context of Israel's longstanding
policy of punitive home demolitions, not a military act and thus would not
fall within the purview of the law regulating hostilities during armed
conflict, which had been the basis for their initial criticism of Hamas.[474]

When the UN-sponsored Goldstone Commission Report on the Gaza War was
commissioned in 2009, it stated that it "found no evidence that Palestinian
combatants mingled with the civilian population with the intention of
shielding themselves from attack" though they deemed credible reports that
Palestinian militants were "not always dressed in a way that distinguished
them from civilians".[478] Hamas MP Fathi Hamed stated that "For the
Palestinian people, death has become an industry, at which women excel...the
elderly excel at this...and so do the children. This is why they have formed
human shields of the women, the children."[479] Following the release of the
Goldstone Report, the former commander of the British forces in Afghanistan
Col. Richard Kemp was invited to testify at the UN Human Rights Council 12th
Special Session that during Operation Cast Lead Israel encountered an "enemy
that deliberately positioned its military capability behind the human shield
of the civilian population".[480][481][482]

### Children as combatants

See also: Children in the Israeli–Palestinian conflict

The Israeli government released a video compiled mostly from Arab news sources
showing Palestinian children under the age of 15 going through military
training and carrying and firing arms. The video's narration explains that
Hamas indoctrinates these child combatants and that Hamas operators send the
children "on missions from which they would not risk their own lives".
According to the Israeli government, the children are used as spotters, to
transport explosives and weapons, sent to play in areas to deter Israeli
attacks and are sent unknowingly with explosive devices in their schoolbags to
be blown up in the vicinity of Israelis.[483] The United Nations defines the
use of children for military purposes as a war crime and a form of slavery.
See Military use of children.

Although Hamas admits to sponsoring summer schools to train teenagers in
handling weapons they condemn attacks by children. Following the deaths of
three teenagers during a 2002 attack on Netzarim in central Gaza, Hamas banned
attacks by children and "called on the teachers and religious leaders to
spread the message of restraint among young boys".[484][485] Hamas's use of
child labor to build tunnels with which to attack Israel has also been
criticized, with at least 160 children killed in the tunnels as of 2012.[486]

### Political freedoms

Hamas mural in the West Bank

Human rights groups and Gazans have accused the Hamas government in the Gaza
Strip of restricting freedom of the press and forcefully suppressing dissent.
Both foreign and Palestinian journalists report harassment and other measures
taken against them.[487][488] In September 2007 the Gaza Interior Ministry
disbanded the Gaza Strip branch of the pro-Fatah Union of Palestinian
Journalists, a move criticized by Reporters without borders.[489] In November
of that year the Hamas government arrested a British journalist and for a time
canceled all press cards in Gaza.[490][491] On February 8, 2008, Hamas banned
distribution of the pro-Fatah Al-Ayyam newspaper, and closed its offices in
the Gaza Strip because it ran a caricature that mocked legislators loyal to
Hamas,.[492][493] The Gaza Strip Interior Ministry later issued an arrest
warrant for the editor.[494]

More widely, in late August 2007 the group was accused in _The Telegraph_ , a
conservative British newspaper, of torturing, detaining, and firing on unarmed
protesters who had objected to policies of the Hamas government.[495] Also in
late August, Palestinian health officials reported that the Hamas government
had been shutting down Gaza clinics in retaliation for doctor strikes – The
Hamas government confirmed the "punitive measure against doctors" because, in
its view, they had incited other doctors to suspend services and go out on
strike.[496] In September 2007 the Hamas government banned public prayers,
after Fatah supporters began holding worship sessions that quickly escalated
into raucous protests against Hamas rule. Government security forces beat
several gathering supporters and journalists.[497] In October 2008, the Hamas
government announced it would release all political prisoners in custody in
Gaza. Several hours after the announcement, 17 Fatah members were
released.[498]

On August 2, 2012, the International Federation of Journalists (IFJ) accused
Hamas of harassing elected officials belong to the Palestinian Journalists'
Syndicate (PJS) in Gaza. The IFJ said that journalists' leaders in Gaza have
faced a campaign of intimidation, as well as threats designed to force them to
stop their union work. Some of these journalists are now facing charges of
illegal activities and a travel ban, due to their refusal "to give in to
pressure". The IFJ said that these accusations are "malicious" and "should be
dropped immediately". The IFJ explained that the campaign against PJS members
began in March 2012, after their election, and included a raid organized by
Hamas supporters who took over the PJS offices in Gaza with the help of the
security forces, and subsequently evicted the staff and elected officials.
Other harassment includes the targeting of individuals who were bullied into
stopping union work. The IFJ backed the PJS and called on Prime Minister
Ismail Haniyeh to intervene to stop "his officials' unwarranted interference
in journalists' affairs".[499] In November 2012, two Gazan journalists were
prevented from leaving Gaza by Hamas. There were scheduled to participate in a
conference in Cairo, Egypt. After being questioned by security forces, their
passports were confiscated.[500] In 2016 Reporters Without Borders condemned
Hamas for censorship and for torturing journalists. Reporters Without Borders
Secretary-General Christophe Deloire said "As living conditions in the Gaza
Strip are disastrous, Hamas wants to silence critics and does not hesitate to
torture a journalist in order to control media coverage in its
territory."[501]

### Human rights abuses

In June 2011, the Independent Commission for Human Rights based in Ramallah
published a report whose findings included that the Palestinians in the West
Bank and the Gaza Strip were subjected in 2010 to an "almost systematic
campaign" of human rights abuses by the Palestinian Authority and Hamas, as
well as by Israeli authorities, with the security forces belonging to the PA
and Hamas being responsible for torture, arrests and arbitrary
detentions.[502]

In 2012, the Human Rights Watch presented a 43 page long list of human rights
violation committed by Hamas. Among actions attributed to Hamas the HRW report
mentions beatings with metal clubs and rubber hoses, hanging of alleged
collaborationists with Israel, and torture of 102 individuals. According to
the report, Hamas also tortured civil society activists and peaceful
protesters. Reflecting on the captivity of Gilad Shalit, the HRW report
described it as "cruel and inhuman". The report also slams Hamas for
harassment of people based on so called morality offenses and for media
censorship.[503][504] In a public statement Joe Stork, the deputy Middle East
director of HRW claimed, "after five years of Hamas rule in Gaza, its criminal
justice system reeks of injustice, routinely violates detainees' rights and
grants impunity to abusive security services." Hamas responded by denying
charges and describing them as "politically motivated"[505]

On May 26, 2015 Amnesty International released a report saying that Hamas
carried out extrajudicial killings, abductions and arrests of Palestinians and
used the Al-Shifa Hospital to detain, interrogate and torture suspects during
the Israel–Gaza conflict in 2014. It details the executions of at least 23
Palestinians accused of collaborating with Israel and torture of dozens of
others, many victims of torture were members of the rival Palestinian
movement, Fatah.[506][507]

## International support

Hamas has always maintained leadership abroad. The movement is deliberately
fragmented to ensure that Israel cannot kill its top political and military
leaders.[508] Hamas used to be strongly allied with both Iran and Syria. Iran
gave Hamas an estimated $13–15 million in 2011 as well as access to long-range
missiles. Hamas’s political bureau was once located in the Syrian capital of
Damascus before the start of the Syrian civil war. Relations between Hamas,
Iran, and Syria began to turn cold when Hamas refused to back the government
of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad. Instead, Hamas backed the Sunni rebels
fighting against Assad. As a result, Iran cut funding to Hamas, and their
terror proxy Hezbollah ordered Hamas members out of Lebanon.[509] Hamas was
then forced out of Syria. Since then, Iran and Hezbollah have tried to mend
fences with Hamas.[509] Hamas contacted Jordan and Sudan to see if either
would open up its borders to its political bureau. But both countries
refused—though they welcomed many Hamas members leaving Syria.[510] In 2012
Hamas headquarters subsequently moved to Doha, Qatar.[511]

From 2012 to 2013, under the leadership of Muslim Brotherhood President
Mohamed Morsi, Hamas had the support of Egypt. However, when Morsi was removed
from Office, his replacement Abdul Fattah al-Sisi outlawed the Muslim
Brotherhood and destroyed the tunnels Hamas built into Egypt. The United Arab
Emirates and Saudi Arabia are likewise hostile to Hamas. Like Egypt, they
designated the Brotherhood as a terrorist organization and Hamas was viewed as
its Palestinian equivalent.[509]

### Qatar and Turkey

According to Middle East experts, now Hamas has two firm allies: Qatar and
Turkey. Both give Hamas public and financial assistance estimated to be in the
hundreds of millions of dollars. Shashank Joshi, senior research fellow at the
Royal United Services Institute, says that "Qatar also hosts Hamas's political
bureau which includes Hamas leader Khaled Meshaal." Meshaal also visits Turkey
frequently to meet with Turkish Prime Minister Recep Tayyip Erdogan.[509]
Erdogan has dedicated himself to breaking Hamas out of its political and
economic seclusion. Last year on U.S. television Erdogan said, "I don't see
Hamas as a terror organization. Hamas is a political party."[508]

In 2007, Qatar was, with Turkey, the only country to back Hamas after the
group ousted the Palestinian Authority out of the Gaza Strip.[509] The
relationship between Hamas and Qatar strengthened in 2008 and 2009 when Khaled
Meshaal was invited to attend the Doha Summit where he was seated next to the
then Qatari Emir Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, who pledged $250 million to
repair the damage caused by the Israel in the Israeli war on Gaza.[510] These
events caused Qatar to become the main player in the "Palestinian issue".
Qatar called Gaza's blockade unjust and immoral, which prompted the Hamas
government in Gaza, including former Prime Minister Ismail Haniyeh, to thank
Qatar for their "unconditional" support. Qatar then began regularly handing
out political, material, humanitarian and charitable support for Hamas.[510]

In 2012, Qatar's former Emir, Hamad bin Khalifa al-Thani, became the first
head of state to visit Gaza under Hamas rule. He pledged to raise $400 million
for reconstruction. Some have argued that the money Qatar gives to reconstruct
Palestine is an excuse to pour even more money into Hamas.[511] Qatar’s reason
for funding Hamas, which is shared by Recep Tayyip Erdogan, is allegedly that
Islamist groups are growing and will eventually play a role in the region;
thus it is important for Qatar (and Turkey) to maintain ties. During the Arab
Spring, for example, Qatar backed the Muslim Brotherhood, the Egyptian
Islamist group whose offshoot is Hamas.[512] Other sources say that advocating
for Hamas is politically beneficial to Turkey and Qatar because the
Palestinian cause draws popular support amongst their citizens at home.[513]

Some began to label Qatar a terrorist haven in part because it is harboring
Hamas leader Meshaal.[512] They also harbor Husam Badran, former leader of
Hamas's military wing in the northern West Bank.[514] Husam Badran, current
media spokesman for Hamas, was the instigator of several of the deadliest
suicide bombings of the second intifada, including the Dolphinarium
discotheque bombing in Tel Aviv, which killed 21 people.[515] Turkey has also
been criticized for housing terrorists including Saleh al-Arouri, the senior
Hamas officer, known for his ability to mastermind attacks from abroad. Al-
Arouri is alleged to have orchestrated the June 2014 abduction and killing of
three Israeli teenagers and to have started the 50-day war between Israel and
Palestine, and now lives in Turkey.[516]

Speaking in reference to Qatar’s support for Hamas, during a 2015 visit to
Palestine, Qatari official Mohammad al-Emadi, said Qatar is using the money
not to help Hamas but rather the Palestinian people as a whole. He
acknowledges however that giving to the Palestinian people means using Hamas
as the local contact. Emadi said, "You have to support them. You don't like
them, don't like them. But they control the country, you know."[517] Some
argue that Hamas’s relations with Qatar are putting Hamas in an awkward
position because Qatar has become part of the regional Arab problem.

But Hamas claims that having contacts with various Arab countries establishes
positive relations which will encourage Arab countries to do their duty toward
the Palestinians and support their cause by influencing public opinion in the
Arab world.[510] In March 2015, Hamas has announced its support of the Saudi
Arabian-led military intervention in Yemen against the Shia Houthis and forces
loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh.[518]

### U.S.-based support

Several U.S. organizations were either shut down or held liable for financing
Hamas in early 2001, groups that have origins from the mid-1990s: the Holy
Land Foundation (HLF), Islamic Association for Palestine (IAP), and Kind
Hearts. The U.S. Treasury Department specially designated the HLF in 2001 for
terror ties: "from 1995 to 2001 the HLF transferred "approximately $12.4
million outside of the United States with the intent to contribute funds,
goods, and services to Hamas." According to the Treasury Department, Khaled
Meshal identified one of HLF's officers, Mohammed El-Mezain as "the Hamas
leader for the U.S." In 2003, IAP was found liable for financially supporting
Hamas, and in 2006, Kind Hearts had their assets frozen for supporting
Hamas.[519] In 2016, it was reported that the Boycott, Divestment and
Sanctions movement (BDS) against Israel includes a web of Hamas supporters
from the Illinois-based organization American Muslims for Palestine
(AMP).[520]

## See also

|

  * Book: Islamic terrorism
  * Book: Islamic terrorist groups

  
---|---  
  
  * Palestine portal
  * Terrorism portal
  * Islam portal

  * 25th anniversary of Hamas
  * Hamastan
  * Human rights in the Palestinian National Authority
  * List of Palestinian suicide attacks
  * List of political parties in the Palestinian National Authority

## References

  1. **^** Matthew Levitt, _Hamas: Politics, Charity, and Terrorism in the Service of Jihad_, Yale University Press, 2007 p.44.
  2. **^** Tristan Dunning, _Hamas, Jihad and Popular Legitimacy: Reinterpreting Resistance in Palestine_, Routledge 2016 p.270.
  3. **^** Ekaterina Stepanova, "Terrorism in Asymmetrical Conflict: Ideological and Structural Aspects" Archived March 10, 2016, at the Wayback Machine., Stockholm International Peace Research Institute, Oxford University Press 2008, p.113.
  4. **^** Sujata Ashwarya Cheema, "Hamas and Politics in Palestine:Impact on Peace-Building", in Rajendra Madhukar Abhyankar (ed.), _West Asia and the Region: Defining India's Role_, Academic Foundation 2008 pp. 465, 463–491: "Hamas considers Palestine the main front of _jihad_ and viewed the uprising as an Islamic way of fighting the Occupation. The leaders of the organization argued that Islam gave the Palestinian people the power to confront Israel and described the Intifada as the return of the masses to Islam. Since its inception, Hamas has tried to reconcile nationalism and Islam. ...Hamas claims to speak as a nationalist movement but with an Islamic-nationalist rather than a secular nationalist agenda."
  5. **^** Meir Litvak, "Religious and Nationalist Fanaticism: The Case of Hamas", in Matthew Hughes & Gaynor Johnson (eds.), _Fanaticism and Conflict in the Modern Age_, Frank Cass, London and New York, 2004, pp. 156–157: "Hamas is primarily a religious movement whose nationalist world view is shaped by its religious ideology."
  6. **^** Anthony H. Cordesman. _Peace and War: The Arab–Israeli Military Balance Enters the 21st Century_. Greenwood Publishing Group. 2002. p. 243: "Hamas is a radical Islamic fundamentalist organization that has stated that its highest priority is a Jihad (holy war) for the liberation of Palestine."
  7. **^** Meir Litvak. "Hamas: Palestinian Identity, Islam, and National Sovereignty," in Asher Susser (ed.) _Challenges to the Cohesion of the Arabic State_. Moshe Dayan Center for Middle Eastern and African Studies. Tel Aviv University. 2008. p. 153: 'One of the secrets behind the success of Hamas is that it is an Islamic and national movement at one and the same time,'
  8. **^** Richard Davis. _Hamas, Popular Support and War in the Middle East: Insurgency in the Holy Land_ Routledge. 2016. pp. 67–69.
  9. **^** Tariq Mukhimer. _Hamas Rule in Gaza: Human Rights Under Constraint_. Palgrave Macmillan. 2012. pp. vii, 57.
  10. **^** "Gaza ceasefire: Israel and Palestinians agree to halt weeks of fighting". TheGuardian. Retrieved  10 November 2014. 
  11. **^** "EU keeps Hamas on terror list, despite court ruling". _Euractiv_. 27 March 2015. Retrieved  15 June 2015. 
  12. **^** https://www.state.gov/documents/organization/65462.pdf
  13. **^** https://www.washingtonpost.com/news/worldviews/wp/2012/11/21/9-questions-about-israel-gaza-you-were-too-embarrassed-to-ask/
  14. **^** _Fatah agrees to celebrate Hamas anniversary in Gaza_. JTA, 7 December 2012.
  15. **^** Amal Jamal. _The Palestinian National Movement: Politics of Contention, 1967–2005_. Indiana University Press. 2005. p. 197. n.21. Dates differ, between December 1987 – January 1988, and August 1988.
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Andrew Higgins, 'How Israel Helped to Spawn Hamas', The Wall Street Journal 24 January 2009.
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_  This article incorporates public domain material from the Congressional Research Service document "Hamas: The Organizations, Goals and Tactics of a Militant Palestinian Organization".
  18. **^** Helena Lindholm Schulz _The Reconstruction of Palestinian Nationalism: Between Revolution and Statehood,_ Manchester University Press, 1999 p.76
  19. **^** Hamas (Islamic Resistance Movement), http://www.ict.org.il
  20. **^** "Israeli Official Says Hamas Has Made Abbas Irrelevant" _The New York Times_ , February 27, 2006
  21. **^** Efraim Inbar. Israel's National Security: Issues and Challenges Since the Yom Kippur War. Routledge, Dec 21, 2007. p. 193
  22. **^** "Hamas". Council on Foreign Relations. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  23. **^** Solomon, Jay (July 31, 2009). "Hamas Chief Outlines Terms for Talks on Arab-Israeli Peace". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  24. **^** Amer, Adnan Abu (May 5, 2014). "Hamas' Abu Marzouk says recognizing Israel a 'red line'". _Al-Monitor_.  
  25. **^** Tostevin, Matthew (2004-03-06). "eircom net Ireland-International / Irish news headlines from leading Irish newspapers". _Internet Archive_. Archived from the original on March 6, 2004. Retrieved  2016-03-17. 
  26. **^** "Report: Hamas proposes 10-year cease-fire in return for conditions being met". _The Jerusalem Post | JPost.com_. 2014-07-16. Retrieved  2016-03-17. 
  27. **^** Fletcher, Martin (2014-07-16). "How Realistic Are Hamas' Cease-Fire Terms?". _NBC News_. Retrieved  2016-03-17. 
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Stephen E. Atkins, _Encyclopedia of Modern Worldwide Extremists and Extremist Groups,_ Greenwood Publishing Group, 2004 :'This ceasefire ended when Israel started targeting Hamas leaders for assassination in July 2003. Hamas retaliated with a suicide bombing in Israel on August 19, 2003, that killed 20 people, including 6 children. Since then Israelis have mounted an assassination campaign against the senior leadership of Hamas that has killed 13 Hamas members, including Ismail Abu Shanab, one of the most moderate leaders of Hamas. . .After each of these assassinations, Hamas has sent a suicide bomber into Israel in retaliation.'
  29. **^** al-Mughrabi, Nidal; Ori Lewis (April 19, 2008). "Hamas bomber killed in attack at Gaza-Israel border". Reuters. Retrieved April 28, 2011. 
  30. **^** Jamie Chosak; Julie Sawyer (October 19, 2005). "Hamas's Tactics: Lessons from Recent Attacks". Washington Institute for Near East Policy. Retrieved August 1, 2011. 
  31. **^** Clauset, A.; Heger, L.; Young, M.; Gleditsch, K. S. (2010). "The strategic calculus of terrorism: Substitution and competition in the Israel—Palestine conflict". _Cooperation and Conflict_. **45** (1): 6–33. doi:10.1177/0010836709347113. ISSN 0010-8367.  
  32. **^** Lankford, Adam (2014). "Précis of The Myth of Martyrdom: What Really Drives Suicide Bombers, Rampage Shooters, and Other Self-Destructive Killers". _Behavioral and Brain Sciences_. **37** (4): 351–362. doi:10.1017/S0140525X13001581. ISSN 0140-525X.  
  33. **^** Mark Perry, 'Gaza's Bottle Rockets', in Gideon Rose (ed) _Clueless in Gaza,_ Foreign Affairs, 2014 p.110: 'most of Hamas' arsenal is comprised of homemade rockets that are decidedly incapable of inflicting mass civilian casualties, flattening apartment blocks, or causing conflagrations that consume entire cities. "Hamas' rockets can kill people and they have," a counter-intelligence veteran of the U.S., CIA who spent his career monitoring Israeli and Palestinian military capabilities, told me recently, "but compared to what the Israelis are using, the Palestinians are firing bottle rockets."
  34. **^** The Growing Reach of Hamas's Rockets. The New York Times. July 2014
  35. **^** "Hamas Rockets from Gaza Target Haifa, Reach Far into Northern Israel". _Washington Free Beacon_. Retrieved  July 17, 2015. 
  36. **^** "Gaza: Palestinian Rockets Unlawfully Targeted Israeli Civilians". _hrw.org/news/_. Human Rights Watch. Retrieved  11 July 2014. 
  37. **^** Israel/PA: Suicide Bombers Commit Crimes Against Humanity. Human Rights Watch
  38. **^** Pollock, David. "The Surprising Opinions of Palestinians." _The Washington Institute_. 7 June 2017. 14 June 2017.
  39. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Who are Hamas?". London: BBC News. January 26, 2006.  
  40. **^** Erlanger, Steven (February 18, 2006). "Hamas Leader Faults Israeli Sanction Plan". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  April 22, 2010. 
  41. **^** "We're sorry, that page can't be found" (PDF). 
  42. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_
    * Hamas _The New York Times_ , June 18, 2010 "The pact did not succeed in restoring the flow of aid and did not last. Clashes between the two groups steadily escalated until gunmen loyal to Hamas took control of Gaza in June, ousting the remnants of Fatah."
    * Backgrounder: Hamas Archived June 13, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.. Council of Foreign Relations. August 27, 2009, "In the summer of 2007, Hamas tensions with the Palestinian President Mahmoud Abbas, a Fatah man, came to a head and Hamas routed Fatah supporters, killing many and sending others fleeing to the West Bank. The result was a de facto geographic division of Palestinian-held territory, with Hamas holding sway in Gaza and Fatah maintaining the internationally recognized Palestinian Authority government in the West Bank town of Ramallah."
  43. **^** "Gaza may face economic disaster if blockade continues". _USA Today_. Associated Press. March 29, 2009. Retrieved  October 9, 2013. 
  44. **^** "Palestinian rivals Hamas and Fatah sign reconciliation deal" _The Guardian (UK)_ , May 4, 2011
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Keinon, Herb. "Politics: Fatah-Hamas unity talks breed Likud harmony". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  21 June 2014. 
  46. **^** Martha Crenshaw, John Pimlott. _International Encyclopedia of Terrorism_. Routledge. 2015. p. 415.
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jennifer Jefferis. _Hamas: Terrorism, Governance, and Its Future in Middle East Politics_. ABC-CLIO. 2016. p. 119.
  48. **^** "The Covenant of the Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas)". MidEast Web. August 18, 1988.  
  49. **^** "Hamas Islamic Resistance". _Hamas.ps_.  
  50. **^** Al-Qassam Brigades – about us Archived November 11, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  51. **^** [1]
  52. **^** Levitt 2006 pp.10–11.
  53. **^** Levitt, 2006 pp.11–12.
  54. **^** Sara Roy, _Hamas and Civil Society in Gaza: Engaging the Islamist Social Sector,_ Princeton University Press, Rev.ed. 2013 p.30.
  55. **^** CNN, Andrew Carey and Joe Sterling. "Ismail Haniya elected new Hamas leader". _CNN_.  
  56. **^** Davis 2016 pp.44–45.
  57. **^** A. Hovdenak, 'Hamas in Transition:The Failure of Sanctions,' in Michelle Pace, Peter Seeberg (eds.), _The European Union's Democratization Agenda in the Mediterranean,_ Routledge, 2013 pp.50–79 p.64.
  58. **^** Peter Mandaville, _Islam and Politics,_ Routledge, 2014 Rev.ed, p.282.
  59. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Benedetta Berti, _Armed Political Organizations: From Conflict to Integration,_ JHU Press, 2013 p.88.
  60. **^** Mohammed Ayoob, _Will the Middle East Implode?,_ John Wiley & Sons, 2014 p.47.
  61. **^** Tristan Dunning,p.136.
  62. **^** Levitt, pp.16–23.
  63. **^** Phillips p.78
  64. **^** Lihi Ben Shitrit, _Righteous Transgressions: Women's Activism on the Israeli and Palestinian Religious Right,_ Princeton University Press, 2015 p.71.
  65. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ David L. Phillips, _From Bullets to Ballots: Violent Muslim Movements in Transition,_ Transaction Publishers, 2011 p.75.
  66. **^** Davis,pp.47ff.
  67. **^** Levitt, p.23:'In a 1995 lecture, Sheikh Jamil Hamami, a party to the foundation of Hamas and a senior member of its West Bank leadership, expounded the importance of Hamas' dawa infrastructure as the soil from which militancy would flower.'
  68. **^** Levitt, pp.25–26.
  69. **^** Mohsen Saleh, _The Palestinian Strategic Report 2006,_ Al Manhal, 2007 p.198.
  70. **^** James J. F. Forrest, 'Conclusion', in James Dingley, _Combating Terrorism in Northern Ireland,_ Routledge, 2008 pp.280–300 p.290.
  71. **^** Phillips p.81.
  72. **^** Levitt, pp. 122–123.
  73. **^** Davis, p.48.
  74. **^** Davis, pp.48–49.
  75. **^** Aoibhín de Búrca, _Preventing Political Violence Against Civilians: Nationalist Militant Conflict in Northern Ireland, Israel And Palestine,_ Palgrave Macmillan, 2014 pp.100–102.
  76. **^** Mohammad Najib and Roland Friedrich 'Non-Statutory Armed Groups and Security Sector Governance,' in Roland Friedrich, Arnold Luethold (eds.), _Entry-points to Palestinian Security Sector Reform,_ DCAF, 2007 pp.101–127 p.103.This date is based on a Hamas operation that assassinated the rabbi of the Israeli settlement of Kfar Darom inside the Gaza Strip.
  77. **^** Davis,pp.110–111.
  78. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Mathieu Guidère, _Historical Dictionary of Islamic Fundamentalism,_ Scarecrow Press, 2012 p.173.
  79. **^** Najib p.103.
  80. **^** Alincée Van Engeland,'Hamas,' in Jeffrey Ian Ross (ed.) _Religion and Violence: An Encyclopedia of Faith and Conflict from Antiquity to the Present,_ Routledge 2015 pp.319–323: p.319.
  81. **^** Davis, p.111.
  82. **^** Mohannad Sabry, _Sinai: Egypt's Linchpin, Gaza's Lifeline, Israel's Nightmare_, British Academic Press, 2015, p. 65.
  83. **^** Najib p. 107
  84. **^** Sabry p. 67.
  85. **^** Sabry, p.73.
  86. **^** Jefferis,p.119.
  87. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Najib p. 107.
  88. **^** Shitrit, p.71.
  89. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Najib p.106.
  90. **^** Najib p.105.
  91. **^** Najib pp. 105–106.
  92. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Najib p.106
  93. **^** R.Kim Cragin,'Learning to Survive:The Case of the Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas)', in James JF Forrest (ed.), _Teaching Terror: Strategic and Tactical Learning in the Terrorist World,_ Rowman & Littlefield, 2006 pp.189–204 p.196.
  94. **^** Erlich Reese, Robert Baer, _Conversations with Terrorists: Middle East Leaders on Politics, Violence, and Empire,_ Routledge, 2016 p.28.
  95. **^** Dunning, p.34.
  96. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Harry Raymond Hueston, Paul G. Pierpaoli Jr., Sherifa Zahar, 'Hamas' in Priscilla Roberts (ed.) _Arab-Israeli Conflict: The Essential Reference Guide,_ ABC-CLIO, 2014 pp.676–71 p.67.
  97. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jeroen Gunning, 'Hamas:Harakat al-Muqamama al-Islamiyya,' in Marianne Heiberg, Brendan O'Leary, John Tirman (eds.), _Terror, Insurgency, and the State: Ending Protracted Conflicts,_ University of Pennsylvania Press, 2007 pp.123–155 p.134.
  98. **^** Najib pp.107-108-
  99. **^** Joyce Davis https://books.google.com/books?id=GxwbNesHJBkC&pg=PA100 _Martyrs: Innocence, Vengeance, and Despair in the Middle East,_ Palgrave Macmillan, 2004 p.100.
  100. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Julie C.Herrick,'Non-State Actors: A Comparative Analysis of Change and Development Within Hamas and Hezbollah,' in Bahgat Korany (ed.), _The Changing Middle East: A New Look at Regional Dynamics,_ American University in Cairo Press, 2010 pp.167–195, p.179.
  101. **^** Mandaville, p.282.
  102. **^** Matthew Levitt, _Negotiating Under Fire: Preserving Peace Talks in the Face of Terror Attacks,_ Rowman & Littlefield 2008 pp.89f.
  103. **^** John L.Esposito, _Islam and Violence,_ Syracuse University Press 1998 p.231.
  104. **^** Ilana Kass & Bard E. O'Neill, _The Deadly Embrace: The Impact of Israeli and Palestinian Rejectionism on the Peace Process,_ National Institute for Public Policy/ University Press of America 1997, p. 267.
  105. **^** Matthew Levitt p.34.
  106. **^** Levitt p. 148.
  107. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ Jodi Vittori, _Terrorist Financing and Resourcing,_ Palgrave Macmillan, 2011 pp.72–74, p.193 notes 50,51.
  108. **^** Levitt, pp. 143–144.
  109. **^** Colin P. Clarke, _Terrorism, Inc.: The Financing of Terrorism, Insurgency, and Irregular Warfare: The Financing of Terrorism, Insurgency, and Irregular Warfare_, ABC-CLIO, 2015 p. 97.
  110. **^** Interpal and Development and the Al-Aqsa Charitable Foundation Fund. pp. 146, 154–159.
  111. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Marsh E. Burfeindt, 'Rapprochement with Iran', in Thomas A. Johnson (ed.), _Power, National Security, and Transformational Global Events: Challenges Confronting America, China, and Iran_. CRC Press. 2012. pp. 185–235 p. 198.
  112. **^** Levitt p.173.
  113. **^** Joshua L. Gleis, Benedetta Berti, _Hezbollah and Hamas: A Comparative Study,_ Johns Hopkins University Press, 2012 p.156.
  114. **^** Robert Mason, _Foreign Policy in Iran and Saudi Arabia: Economics and Diplomacy in the Middle East,_ I.B.Tauris, 2015 pp. 48–49
  115. **^** Levitt, pp. 172–174.
  116. **^** Lawrence Rubin, _Islam in the Balance: Ideational Threats in Arab Politics_. Stanford University Press, 2014 p. 104
  117. **^** Jalil Roshandel, Alethia H. Cook, _The United States and Iran: Policy Challenges and Opportunities,_ Palgrave Macmillan, 2009. p. 104.
  118. **^** Mark P. Sullivan, 'Latin America: Terrorism Issues'. Congressional Research Service. 14 July 2009. p. 4.
  119. **^** Davis, p.173.
  120. **^** Ziyād Abū ʻAmr, _Islamic Fundamentalism in the West Bank and Gaza: Muslim Brotherhood and Islamic Jihad,_ Indiana University Press, 1994 p.16.
  121. **^** Rashmi Singh, _Hamas and Suicide Terrorism: Multi-causal and Multi-level Approaches,_ Routledge, 2013 p.153 n.70.
  122. **^** Levitt, p.24 p. 24: "Scholars and historians on both sides...agree that from the late 1960s to the mid-1980s the [Muslim] Brotherhood benefited from the Israeli government's support of non-violent Islamist Palestinian factions, believing these groups would function as a useful counterweight to the secular nationalist Palestinian groups..."
  123. **^** Philip Mattar (ed.,) _Encyclopedia of the Palestinians,_ Infobase Publishing, 2005 p.195: 'the Brotherhood was even quietly assisted by Israel I authorities in the hopes that it could serve as an alternative to the PLO',
  124. **^** Riaz Hassan, _Life as a Weapon: The Global Rise of Suicide Bombings,_ Routledge, Revised ed.2014 p.80-
  125. **^** Amr p.31.Ahmad Yassin stated 'the PLO is secularist. It cannot be accepted as a representative unless it becomes islamic' p.31; 'Politically speaking, Islamic fundamentalists were sometimes regarded as useful to Israel because they had their conflicts with the secular supporters of the PLO . . .the Israeli military governor of the Gaza Strip, Brigadier General Yitzhak Segev, once told me how he had financed the Islamic movement as a counterweight to the PLO and the Communists . . .In 1980, when fundamentalist protesters set fire to the office of the Red Crescent Society in Gaza, headed by Dr Haidar Abdel-Shafi, a Communist and PLO supporter, the Israeli army did nothing, intervening only when the mob marched to his home and seemed to threaten him personally'.p.35
  126. **^** Helena Lindholm Schulz _The Reconstruction of Palestinian Nationalism: Between Revolution and Statehood,_ Manchester University Press, 1999 p.76
  127. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Laura Neack, _The New Foreign Policy: Power Seeking in a Globalized Era,_ Rowman & Littlefield 2008 p.101.
  128. **^** Amal Jamal, _The Palestinian National Movement: Politics of Contention, 1967–2005,_ Indiana University Press, 2005 p.197 n.21.Dates differ, between December 1987 – January 1988, and August 1988
  129. **^** _The World Almanac of Islamism: 2014,_ American Foreign Policy Council/Rowman & Littlefield, 2014 (Hamas pp.272–278).
  130. **^** Joshua L. Gleis, Benedetta Berti, _Hezbollah and Hamas: A Comparative Study,_ Johns Hopkins University Press, 2012 p.119:'In truth, the creation of Hamas as a separate entity from the Muslim Brotherhood was done precisely to prevent Israeli authorities from targeting the organizations' greater activities, in the hopes that it would leave them relatively immune. Moreover, Hamas was created essentially because the Islamicists connected to the Muslim Brotherhood feared that without their direct participation in the first Intifada, they would lose supporters to both the PIJ and the PLO, the latter of which was anxious to reassert itself in the Palestinian territories after being marginalized following its expulsion from Lebanon. As authors Mishal and Saela, explain, "The Mujamma's decision to adopt a 'jihad now' policy against 'enemies of Allah' (through the creation of Hamas) was thus largely a matter of survival.'
  131. **^** "Hamas Prime Minister Ismail Haniya Reaffirms Hamas' Commitment to Armed Resistance and Says: We Will Liberate Palestine in Its Entirety, from the Mediterranean to the Jordan River". _Memri TV_. Retrieved  22 July 2014. 
  132. **^** Ronni Shaked, 'Ethos of Conflict of the Palestinian Society,' in Keren Sharvit, Eran Halperin (eds.), _A Social Psychology Perspective on The Israeli-Palestinian Conflict: Celebrating the Legacy of Daniel Bar-Tal,_ Springer, 2016 Volume 2 pp.133–149 p.142.
  133. **^** According to Khaled Hroub, _Hamas: A Beginner's Guide,_ Pluto Press 2006 p.33: 'The Charter was written in early 1988 by one individual and was made public without appropriate general Hamas consultation, revision or consensus, to the regret of Hamas's leaders in later years. The author of the Charter was one of the 'old guard' of the Muslim Brotherhood in the Gaza Strip, completely cut off from the outside world. All kinds of confusions and conflations between Judaism and Zionism found their way into the Charter, to the disservice of Hamas ever since, as this document has managed to brand it with charges of 'anti-Semitism' and a naïve world-view' Hamas leaders and spokespeople have rarely referred to the Charter or quoted from it, evidence that it has come to be seen as a burden rather than an intellectual platform that embraces the movement's principles.'
  134. **^** Khaled Hroub, 'A "New Hamas" through its new documents', Journal of Palestine Studies, vol. 35, No. 4, Summer 2006, Issue 140, pp. 6–28, p.6, cited Michael Schulz, 'Hamas Between Sharia Rule and Demo-Islam,' in Ashok Swain, Ramses Amer, Joakim Öjendal (eds.), _Globalization and Challenges to Building Peace,_ pp.195–2011:'Hamas continues to be characterized with reference to its 1988 charter drawn up less than a year after the movement was established in direct response to the outbreak of the third intifada and when its raison d'être was armed resistance to the occupation. Yet when its election and post-election documents are compared to the charter, it becomes clear that what is being promoted is a profondly different organization'
  135. **^** 'The non-Zionist Jew is one who belongs to the Jewish culture, whether as a believer in the Jewish faith or simply by accident of birth, but . .(who) takes no part in aggressive actions against our land and our nation...Hamas will not adopt a hostile position in practice against anyone because of his ideas or his creed but will adopt such a position if those ideas and creed are translated into hostile or damaging actions against our people.' (1990)Khaled Hroub, p.34.
  136. **^** Giandomenico Picco, Gabrielle Rifkind, _The Fog of Peace_, I.B.Tauris, 2014 pp.47–48
  137. **^** Gabriel Weimann, _Terror on the Internet: The New Arena, the New Challenges,_ US Institute of Peace Press, 2006 p.82.
  138. **^** Jim Zanotti, _Hamas: Background and Issues for Congress,_ DIANE Publishing, 2011 p.15.
  139. **^** Zanotti, p.15.
  140. **^** Roberts p.68 :'The Charter condemns world Zionism and the efforts to isolate Palestine, defines the mission of the organization, and locates that mission within Palestinian, Arab and Islamic elements. It does not condemn the West or non-Muslims, but does condemn aggression against the Palestinian people, arguing for a defensive jihad. It also calls for fraternal relations with the other Palestinian nationalist groups'.
  141. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Hamas Covenant 1988: The Covenant of the Islamic Resistance Movement". _The Avalon Project: Documents in Law, History and Diplomacy_. Yale Law School. August 18, 1988. Retrieved  February 15, 2009. 
  142. **^** Shaul Mishal, Avraham Sela, _The Palestinian Hamas: vision, violence, and coexistence_ Columbia University Press, 2006 p.178.
  143. **^** Mark A. Tessler _A History of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict,_ Indiana University Press, 1994 pp.546,696
  144. **^** Peter Beinart, _The Crisis of Zionism,_ Melbourne University Press 2012 p.219 n.53.
  145. **^** Ayala H. Emmett, _Our Sisters' Promised Land: Women, Politics, and Israeli-Palestinian Coexistence,_ University of Michigan Press, 2003 pp.100–102.
  146. **^** Glenn Frankel, _Beyond the Promised Land: Jews and Arabs on the Hard Road to a New Israel,_ Simon and Schuster, 1996 p.389-391, cites Binjamin Netanyahu as declaring:'You say the Bible is not a property deed. But I say the opposite-the Bible is our mandate, the Bible is our deed'. Yitzhak Rabin at the time charged that "Bibi Netyanyahu is a Hamas collaborator . . Hamas and Likud have the same political goal.'
  147. **^** David Whitten Smith, Elizabeth Geraldine Burr, _Understanding World Religions: A Road Map for Justice and Peace,_ Rowman & Littlefield, 2014 2nd.ed. pp.250–1 for a comparison of similarities regarding ownership of the land in the Likud and Hamas platforms.
  148. **^** Louise Fawcett, _International Relations of the Middle East,_ Oxford University Press 2013 p.49:'The Hamas platform calls for full Muslim-Palestinian control of the Mediterranean to the Jordan River – the mirror image of Likud’s platform for Jewish control of the same land.'
  149. **^** Padraig O'Malley _The Two-State Delusion: Israel and Palestine—A Tale of Two Narratives,_ Penguin Books 2015 p. 26:’Israel incessantly invokes provisions of Hamas’s charter that call for the elimination of Jews and the destruction of Israel, and its refusal to recognize the state of Israel. . .Hamas also calls attention to the clauses in the Likud charter that explicitly denounce a two-state solution. A double standard, says Hamas.'
  150. **^** Noam Chomsky, in Elliot N. Dorff, Danya Ruttenberg, Louis E Newman (eds.), _Jewish Choices, Jewish Voices: War and National Security,_ Jewish Publication Society, 2010 pp.26–7
  151. **^** Dunning, Tristan (20 November 2014), _Israel’s policy on statehood merits the same scrutiny as Hamas gets_  
  152. **^** David Whitten, Smith, Elizabeth Geraldine Burr, _Understanding World Religions: A Road Map for Justice and Peace,_ Rowman & Littlefield, 2014 p.250
  153. **^** Peter Beinart, _The Crisis of Zionism,_ Melbourne University Press 2012 p.231:'If Israel withdraws to the borders of 1967, it doesn't mean that it gives us back all the land of the Palestinians. But we do consider this as an acceptable solution to have a Palestinian state on the borders of 1967'.
  154. **^** Dr. Lorenzo Kamel, 'Why do Palestinians in Gaza support Hamas?,' Haaretz 5 August 2014
  155. **^** Davis, p.41
  156. **^** Matthew Duss, 'Remember Gaza?,' Tablet Magazine 8 May 2015.
  157. **^** Davis, p.41.
  158. **^** Wendy Pearlman, _Violence, Nonviolence, and the Palestinian National Movement_, Cambridge University Press, 2011 p.137.
  159. **^** Seth Ackerman (September–October 2006). "Nixed Signals". _Extra!_. Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting. Retrieved  March 18, 2012. 
  160. **^** Barak Ravid (August 14, 2008). "In 2006 letter to Bush, Haniyeh offered compromise with Israel". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  March 18, 2012. 
  161. **^** Al Jazeera, "Hamas ready to accept 1967 borders". Apr 22, 2008.
  162. **^** Amira Hass (November 9, 2008). "Hamas willing to accept Palestinian state with 1967 borders". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  April 16, 2014. 
  163. **^** Yoav Segev (September 22, 2009). "Haniyeh to UN chief: Hamas accepts Palestinian state in '67 borders". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  February 25, 2012. 
  164. **^** "Hamas Vows to Honor Palestinian Referendum on Peace with Israel: Islamist Leader Ismail Haniyeh Says He Would Accept a Deal with Israel Based on 1967 Borders and Denies that Gaza has Become a Stronghold for Al-Qaida". _Haaretz_. Reuters. December 1, 2010. Retrieved  February 25, 2012. 
  165. **^** Ilan Ben Zion (March 14, 2012). "The eye of the Islamic Jihad storm". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved  March 29, 2012. 
  166. **^** Marc Tracy (March 12, 2012). "Terrorist Killing Prompts Gaza Rocket Exchange". _Tablet Magazine_. Retrieved  March 31, 2012. 
  167. **^** Israel rejects Gaza ceasefire _The Guardian_ (UK), April 25, 2008
  168. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Erlanger, Steven (April 1, 2008). "In Gaza, Hamas's Insults to Jews Complicate Peace". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  169. **^** "Nizar Rayyan of Hamas on God's Hatred of Jews", _The Atlantic_ , (January 2, 2009).
  170. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Hamas Fights Over Gaza's Islamist Identity _The New York Times_ , September 5, 2009
  171. **^** Martyrdom, Not Suicide: The Legality of Hamas' Bombings in the Mid-1990s in Modern Islamic Jurisprudence By M.A. Philipp Holtmann, p. 13
  172. **^** For suicide attacks, sources include:
    * "To the outside world, Hamas is best-known—infamous—for its reliance on suicide bombers." (Palestinian territories:Inside Hamas, _PBS_ _Frontline: World_ , May 9, 2006)
    * "... the militant organization, best known abroad for its attacks against Israeli civilians ..." (Musharbash, Yassin. "Could Victory be Undoing of Hamas", _Der Spiegel_ , January 27, 2006)
    * "... it was best known in Israel and abroad for the suicide attacks it used ..." ("After the Hamas earthquake", _The Guardian_ , January 27, 2006).
  173. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _Martyrdom, Not Suicide: The Legality of Hamas' Bombings in the Mid-1990s in Modern Islamic Jurisprudence_ By M. A. Philipp Holtmann, p. 16
  174. **^** "For Arabs in Israel, a house is not a home" by Edward Platt, _New Statesman_ , August 30, 2010
  175. **^** _Inside Hamas: The Untold Story of Militants, Martyrs and Spies_ By Zaki Chehab, p. 115
  176. **^** Chronology for Palestinians in Israel Archived August 12, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. The UN Refugee Agency, 2004
  177. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _The Palestinian People: A History_ By Baruch Kimmerling  & Joel S. Migdal, pp. 372–373
  178. **^** Karsh, Efraim. _Arafat's War: The Man and His Battle for Israeli Conquest_. New York: Grove Press, 2003. p. 216.
  179. **^** Katz, Samuel. _The Hunt for the Engineer_. Lyons Press, 2002. ISBN 1-58574-749-1, p. 256
  180. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Jordan curbs Hamas", _The Guardian_ , November 22, 1999
  181. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Hamas Leader Khaled Mashaal" _Time_ , January 4, 2009
  182. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jordan: Whether Hamas persecute, kidnap, torture or abuse with impunity Jordanian citizens who disagree with its methods, policies and ideology Immigration and Refugee Board of Canada, October 25, 2000, JOR35666.E, accessed September 28, 2010
  183. **^** _Hamas: Politics, Charity, and Terrorism in the Service of Jihad_ , by Matthew Levitt. Yale University Press, 2007. p. 45
  184. **^** _B'Tselem  – Statistics – Fatalities_ Archived January 5, 2010, at the Wayback Machine., B'Tselem.
  185. **^** "Human Capital and the Productivity of Suicide Bombers" Archived January 27, 2013, at the Wayback Machine. _Journal of Economic Perspectives_ Volume 21, Number 3, Summer 2007. Pages 223–238
  186. **^** "The Second Intifada: Background and Causes of the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict" Jeremy Pressman, Fall 2003 (pdf)
  187. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Running out of time Archived January 20, 2010, at the Wayback Machine. _Al-Ahram Weekly_ January 29  – February 4, 2004
  188. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Israel rejects 'insincere' Hamas offer of 10-year truce" _The Independent_ January 27, 2004
  189. **^** Fury as Gaza buries Hamas leader BBC News April 19, 2004
  190. **^** Hamas chief killed in air strike BBC News March 22, 2004
  191. **^** Price, Matthew (May 13, 2005). "Hamas success in Fatah heartland". BBC News. Retrieved January 5, 2010. 
  192. **^** McGreal, Chris (January 12, 2006). "Hamas drops call for destruction of Israel from manifesto". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  May 4, 2010. 
  193. **^** "Hamas: Ceasefire for return to 1967 border". Ynetnews. January 30, 2006.  
  194. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hamas Routs Ruling Faction, Casting Pall on Peace Process, _The New York Times_ , January 27, 2006
  195. **^** Kristen Ess. "Why Hamas Won" _ZNet_. Palestine, January 31, 2006.
  196. **^** Peace with Israel for withdrawal to '67 borders, Ynetnews March 3, 2006
  197. **^** Butcher, Tim (February 9, 2006). "Hamas offers deal if Israel pulls out". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  May 4, 2010. 
  198. **^** John Pike. "Hamas (Islamic Resistance Movement)". Globalsecurity.org. Retrieved May 27, 2010. 
  199. **^** Palestinian sanctions to remain BBC, March 20, 2007
  200. **^** Ravid, Barak (June 6, 2006). "In 2006 letter to Bush, Haniyeh offered compromise with Israel". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  201. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hroub, Khaled (Summer 2006). "A 'New Hamas' through Its New Documents". _Journal of Palestine Studies_. **35** (4): 6. doi:10.1525/jps.2006.35.4.6. Archived from the original on July 25, 2011. Retrieved  May 30, 2011. 
  202. **^** "The Proof Is in the Paper Trail". _Vanity Fair_. March 5, 2008. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  203. **^** Mahnaimi, Uzi. "Israel foils plot to kill Palestinian president", _The Sunday Times_ , May 7, 2006
  204. **^** McGreal, Chris (June 10, 2006). "Death on the Beach: Seven Palestinians killed as Israeli shells hit family picnic". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  May 4, 2010. 
  205. **^** "Palestinian Child Buries Slain Family". IslamOnline.net. June 11, 2006. Archived from the original on December 7, 2008.  
  206. **^** Katz, Yaakov (June 20, 2006). "HRW says it can't refute IDF Gaza beach findings blast". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  207. **^** Katz, Yaakov (June 22, 2006). "IDF: Second piece of shrapnel not ours". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  208. **^** "Militants Fire Rockets Into South Israel". _San Francisco Chronicle_. March 5, 2010. Archived from the original on January 25, 2009. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  209. **^** "Operation Summer Rains", _GlobalSecurity.org_
  210. **^** "PM: We will not recapture Gaza". _Ynetnews_. July 2, 2006. Archived from the original on January 20, 2008.  
  211. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Israelis, Palestinians urged to 'step back from the brink', avert full-scale conflict, as Security Council debates events in Gaza". United Nations. June 30, 2006.  
  212. **^** "Fatah and Hamas no nearer to unity as Palestinian parliament's term ends". Haaretz. January 25, 2010.  
  213. **^** "Israel releases jailed Hamas parliament speaker". _Haaretz_. June 23, 2009.  
  214. **^** CNN Library (August 8, 2014). "Gilad Shalit Fast Facts". _CNN_. Retrieved  July 17, 2015. 
  215. **^** Inside the tunnels Hamas built: Israel's struggle against new tactic in Gaza war. The Guardian
  216. **^** Rudoren, Jodi (28 July 2014). "Tunnels Lead Right to the Heart of Israeli Fear". _New York Times_. Retrieved  1 August 2014. 
  217. **^** "Palestinian government criticises UN position on Gaza tunnel". _Middle East Monitor_. October 23, 2013. Archived from the original on August 11, 2014. Retrieved  July 29, 2014. 
  218. **^** "The Palestinian National Unity Government". February 24, 2007. Retrieved  June 4, 2010. 
  219. **^** Rose, David (October 20, 2009). "The Gaza Bombshell". _Vanity Fair_. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  220. **^** The "Gaza War". (PDF) . Retrieved on 2010-08-21.
  221. **^** McGirk, Tim (June 13, 2007). "What Happens After Hamas Wins?". _Time_. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  222. **^** Daraghmeh, M. (June 17, 2007). "Abbas forms cabinet, outlaws Hamas militias". _The Star_. Retrieved  June 7, 2013. 
  223. **^** "Over 600 Palestinians killed in internal clashes since 2006". Ynetnews. June 6, 2007. Retrieved  August 24, 2010. 
  224. **^** "Fatah supporters surrender to Hamas" _The Guardian_ (UK), June 13, 2007
  225. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Under Cover of War|Human Rights Watch. Human Rights Watch (2009-04-20). Retrieved on 2010-08-21.
  226. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ B'Tselem – Violations of the human rights of Palestinians by Palestinians – Severe human rights violations in inter-Palestinian clashes. Btselem.org (2007-11-12). Retrieved on 2010-08-21.
  227. **^** Abu Toameh, Khaled (March 5, 2012). "'No political differences between Fatah, Hamas'". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  2013-02-14. 
  228. **^** Ben Zion, Ilan (2012-03-03). "Abbas: 'Hamas wants Palestinian state with '67 borders'". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved  2013-02-14. 
  229. **^** "Israel-Hamas truce announced". Al Jazeera English. June 17, 2008. Retrieved  June 17, 2008. 
  230. **^** Witte, Griff; Knickmeyer, Ellen (June 18, 2008). "Israel, Hamas Agree on Gaza Strip Truce". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  231. **^** "Israel agrees to Gaza ceasefire". BBC News. June 18, 2008. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  232. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "The Six Months of the Lull Arrangement" (PDF). Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center at the Israel Intelligence Heritage & Commemoration Center. December 2008. Retrieved October 9, 2013. 
  233. **^** "US embassy cables: US talks to Israeli security chief about Arabs and Gaza" _The Guardian (UK)_ , April 7, 2011 'Diskin said that Israel does not like the tahdiya—seeing it as a means whereby Hamas and other groups can regroup and re-arm—but also dislikes the current situation. The ISA, he said, believes that the best option now is a large-scale ground incursion into the Gaza Strip that allows the IDF to take over the southern part of the Gaza Strip and to stop smuggling and increase pressure on Hamas. "If you do this, it will cause big problems for Hamas' survival in the Gaza Strip," he said.'
  234. **^** Avi Isacharoff; Yuval Azoulay (June 27, 2008). "Hamas: Continued rocket fire by Fatah armed group harms Palestinian interests". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  April 16, 2014. 
  235. **^** "Hamas arrests militants after rocket fire" Reuters. July 10, 2008
  236. **^** "Israel closes Gaza after rockets" BBC, June 25, 2008
  237. **^** "Gaza truce broken as Israeli raid kills six Hamas gunmen", _The Guardian_ , November 5, 2008.
  238. **^** Why Israel went to war in Gaza, _The Guardian_ , January 4, 2008.
  239. **^** Robin Lustig (January 6, 2009). "Gaza: the numbers". BBC News. Retrieved May 27, 2010. 
  240. **^** "Rockets from Gaza bombard Israeli area". UPI. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  241. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Hamas 'might renew truce' in Gaza". London: BBC News. December 23, 2008. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  242. **^** "Why Israel Attacked" _Time_ magazine  – December 27, 2008
  243. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Civilian death toll rises after second day of air strikes _The Guardian_ (UK), December 29, 2008
  244. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Israeli airstrikes in Gaza kill more than 200 msnbc.com, December 28, 2008
  245. **^** IAF kills Hamas strongman Siam – Confronting Hamas, _The Jerusalem Post_ Archived February 3, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  246. **^** "Obituary: Nizar Rayyan". London: BBC News. January 1, 2009. Retrieved  January 9, 2009. 
  247. **^** "Key Hamas Leader Killed". London: BBC News. January 15, 2009. Retrieved  January 15, 2009. 
  248. **^** "Warnings Not Enough for Gaza Families" _The New York Times_ , January 5, 2009
  249. **^** "Israel Deepens Gaza Incursion as Toll Mounts" _The New York Times_ , January 5, 2009
  250. **^** "Strike at Gaza school 'kills 40 '". London: BBC News. January 7, 2009. Retrieved January 9, 2009. 
  251. **^** "Israel 'shelled civilian shelter '". London: BBC News. January 9, 2009. Retrieved January 9, 2009. 
  252. **^** "Israel accused of war crimes over 12-hour assault on Gaza village" _The Guardian_ January 18, 2009
  253. **^** "Israel declares ceasefire in Gaza". London: BBC News. January 18, 2009. Retrieved  January 19, 2009. 
  254. **^** "Hamas announces ceasefire in Gaza". London: BBC News. January 18, 2009. Retrieved  January 19, 2009. 
  255. **^** Agence France-Presse (September 21, 2010). "Israel, Hamas probes on Gaza violations inadequate". _Daily Nation_. Retrieved  June 7, 2013. 
  256. **^** Hamas releases second response to Goldstone Report Archived July 23, 2011, at the Wayback Machine. Palestine Note, July 28, 2010 "... approximately 1,400 Palestinians were killed according to the Hamas government and the Palestinian Center for Human Rights. The Israeli army puts the number at 1,166."
  257. **^** "Hamas says 300 Fighters Killed in Gaza war". Agence France-Presse. November 1, 2010. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  258. **^** Liel, Alon (November 1, 2010). "Hamas confirms losses in Cast Lead for first time". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  259. **^** Abu Toameh, Khaled (August 16, 2009). "Mashaal: Hamas can speak with Obama". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  August 17, 2009. 
  260. **^** Speech of Khaled Meshaal August 30, 2009 (rough automated translation from Arabic)
  261. **^** Pollock, David. "Rejectionists Readying to Counter U.S. Peace Push". _Washington Institute for Near East Policy_. September 1, 2009.
  262. **^** Video interview of Khaled Meshal by Charlie Rose, May 28, 2010 Archived September 23, 2010, at the Wayback Machine. Click on small "transcript" link at top of comments section to view transcript; scroll up to view video.
  263. **^** Hamas renews offer to end fight if Israel withdraws Reuters, May 30, 2010.
  264. **^** "Hamas Chief Outlines Terms for Talks on Arab-Israeli Peace". The Wall Street Journal. July 31, 2009. Retrieved  June 21, 2012. 
  265. **^** Post-Assad Syria would drop special Iran ties| Reuters |December 3, 2011
  266. **^** "Hamas ditches Assad, backs Syrian revolt". Reuters. 24 February 2012.
  267. **^** "Syria Berates Hamas Chief, an Old Ally, on State TV". _The New York Times_ , October 2, 2012.
  268. **^** "Hamas and Fatah in unity talks, says Khaled Meshaal". BBC News, February 7, 2013.
  269. **^** "2 Hamas leaders killed in Syria, sources say". Ma'an News Agency, October 29, 2012.
  270. **^** "Syria Shuts Down Hamas Offices". Arutz Sheva, November 6, 2012.
  271. **^** "NGO accuses Damascus of killing two Hamas members in Syria". Al-Ahram Online, January 9, 2013.
  272. **^** " 'Military wing of Hamas training Syrian rebels'". _The Jerusalem Post_. Reuters. April 5, 2013. Retrieved  April 16, 2014. 
  273. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Kotsev, Victor (March 26, 2013). "A Spring Revival for the Peace Process?". Sada. Retrieved March 29, 2013. 
  274. **^** "Hamas appoints first spokeswoman – Middle East". Al Jazeera English. Retrieved  2014-07-28. 
  275. **^** Palestinian Leader Assails Hamas, Calling Unity Pact Into Question. By JODI RUDORENSEPT. August 7, 2014. New York Times.
  276. **^** Abbas blames Hamas for prolonged battle with Israel. AP AND AVI ISSACHAROFF August 29, 2014
  277. **^** Abbas hints PA close to ending unity agreement with Hamas. By KHALED ABU TOAMEH. September 7, 2014
  278. **^** "Hamas criticizes construction delays as Israeli plot". _www.jpost.com_. Jpost Inc. 26 October 2014. Retrieved  26 October 2014. 
  279. **^** http://www.al-monitor.com/pulse/originals/2017/08/israel-egypt-hamas-cooperation-security-islamic-state-sinai.html
  280. **^** http://www.middleeasteye.net/news/hamas-charter-1637794876
  281. **^** https://electronicintifada.net/blogs/ali-abunimah/whats-behind-hamas-new-charter
  282. **^** http://www.aljazeera.com/indepth/features/2017/10/hamas-fatah-reconciliation-deal-succeed-171013064803703.html
  283. **^** "Anti-Semitic Hate Speech in the Name of Islam". Spiegel Online International. May 16, 2008.  
  284. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hamas Condemns the Holocaust _The Guardian_ May 12, 2008
  285. **^** "New propaganda song from Hamas". Haaretz. 11 November 2014.  
  286. **^** "Online Terrorists Prey on the Vulnerable". Globalpolitician.com. Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  287. **^** "Hamas Children's Magazine Al-Fateh Encourages Terrorism, Glorifies Martyrdom". Memri.org. Archived from the original on August 5, 2009. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  288. **^** "Hamas Magazine for Kids Promotes Martyrdom and Hatred". Adl.org. Archived from the original on August 4, 2011. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  289. **^** "Hamas leader killed in air strike". London: BBC. January 1, 2009.  
  290. **^** "Hamas TV station shut down". Archived from the original on October 9, 2007. Retrieved  2007-10-09. , news24.com, January 22, 2006
  291. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Terrorism: Al Aqsa TV". ADL. Archived from the original on January 20, 2013. Retrieved 2009.   Check date values in: `|access-date=` (help)
  292. **^** "Hamas Launches Television Network". NPR. Retrieved  February 3, 2006. 
  293. **^** Johnson, Alan (May 15, 2008). "Hamas and antisemitism". London: The Guardian. 
  294. **^** Shitrit, pp.73–4.
  295. **^** Phillips, p.81.
  296. **^** Shitrit p.74.
  297. **^** Gerber p.27.
  298. **^** Cheryl Rubenberg, _Palestinian Women: Patriarchy and Resistance in the West Bank,_ Lynne Reinner 2001 pp. 230–231
  299. **^** Deborah J. Gerner, 'Mobilizing Women for Nationalist Agendas,' in Valentine M. Moghadam (ed.), _From Patriarchy to Empowerment: Women's Participation, Movements, and Rights in the Middle East, North Africa, and South Asia_ Syracuse University Press, 2007 pp.17–39 p.27.
  300. **^** "Hamas encourages Gaza women to follow Islamic code _English_Xinhua". News.xinhuanet.com. January 3, 2010. Archived from the original on May 14, 2011. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  301. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hamas Bans Women Dancers, Scooter Riders in Gaza Push Archived November 18, 2015, at the Wayback Machine. By Daniel Williams, Bloomberg, November 30, 2009
  302. **^** Hamas patrols beaches in Gaza to enforce conservative dress code _The Guardian_ (UK), October 18, 2009
  303. **^** "Women in Gaza: Life Under Hamas". BBC News. March 20, 2010. Retrieved  January 6, 2013. 
  304. **^** Rettig, Haviv (March 5, 2013). "UN Cancels Gaza Marathon". Timesofisrael.com. Retrieved March 27, 2013. 
  305. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Palestine: Taliban-like attempts to censor music". Freemuse.org. August 17, 2006. Archived from the original on August 7, 2011. Retrieved  August 2, 2011. 
  306. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Afghanistan in Palestine, by Zvi Bar'el, _Haaretz_ , July 26, 2005
  307. **^** "Battling over the public sphere: Islamic reactions to the music of today". Jonas Otterbeck. _Contemporary Islam_. Volume 2, Number 3, 211–228, doi:10.1007/s11562-008-0062-y. "... the over-all argument was that the event was haram"
  308. **^** "Palestinians Debate Whether Future State Will be Theocracy or Democracy". Associated Press, July 13, 2005.
  309. **^** Gaza Taliban? by Editorial Staff, The New Humanist, Volume 121 Issue 1, January/February 2006
  310. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hamas Rule in Gaza: Three Years On, Yezid Sayigh, Crown Center for Middle East studies, March 2010
  311. **^** See also: Letter from Gaza, Hamas's tunnel diplomacy, By Thanassis Cambanis, June 18, 2010. Foreign Affairs. "They want to know if we are more like the Taliban or Erdogan. They will see that we are closer to Erdogan."
  312. **^** Hamas: 'We want Erdoğan's model, not Taliban's'. Cansu Çamlibel, The Daily Hurriyet. June 10, 2010
  313. **^** A Leader of Hamas Warns of West Bank Peril for Fatah _The New York Times_. June 21, 2006. "Mr. Sawaf's West Bank office in Ramallah has been destroyed, and the Palestinian paper _Al Ayyam_ has refused to continue printing his paper in the West Bank."
  314. **^** Hamas-Gaza-extremism, _The Weekly Middle East Reporter_ (Beirut, Lebanon), August 8, 2009
  315. **^** Webman, Esther. _Anti-semitic Motifs in the Ideology of Hizballah and Hamas_ , Project for the study of Anti-semitism, Tel Aviv University, 1994, p. 22. ISBN 965-222-592-4
  316. **^** "Anti-Zionist Jews meet with Hamas leader in Gaza". _Haaretz_. Associated Press. July 16, 2009. Retrieved  April 16, 2014. 
  317. **^** "Hamas's "Hitler Youth" style movement prepares for jihad". The Commentator. February 6, 2013. Retrieved  July 21, 2014. 
  318. **^** "War is war: Why I stand with Israel". The Independent. July 11, 2014. Retrieved  July 21, 2014. 
  319. **^** "Hamas: We'll recognize Israel within '67 borders (Ynetnews, 05.11.06)". Ynetnews.com. June 20, 1995. Retrieved  January 6, 2013. 
  320. **^** "Hamas: No recognition of Israel". BBC News. November 14, 2006. Retrieved  January 6, 2013. 
  321. **^** "Hamas Covenant 1988". Yale. Archived from the original on June 29, 2011. Retrieved  27 May 2010. 
  322. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Hamas ratchets up its rhetoric against Jews". Herald Tribune. Retrieved  November 21, 2008. 
  323. **^** Lyons, John (March 17, 2010). "Israel defies the US over East Jerusalem buildings". _The Australian_.  
  324. **^** Waked, Ali. "Hamas' al-Zahar: Israel made deal with the devil". Ynetnews. 
  325. **^** Hamas Official Ahmad Bahr Preaches for the Annihilation of Jews and Americans, MEMRI, Clip No. 3538, August 10, 2012.
  326. **^** Hamas leader prays for annihilation of Jews, Americans by Greg Tepper, _The Times of Israel_ , August 20, 2012.
  327. **^** Video: Hamas MP: 'Annihilate Jews and Americans' by Tzvi Ben Gedalyahu, _Israel National News_ , August 26, 2012.
  328. **^** Hamas top official: Kill every last Jew and American (VIDEO), _Jewish Journal_ , August 24, 2012.
  329. **^** Hamas MP Marwan Abu Ras: The Jews Are Behind Every Catastrophe on Earth, MEMRITV, Clip No. 3598 (transcript), September 12, 2012.
  330. **^** Friedman, Matti (December 26, 2012). "Hamas official calls for suicide bombings in response to East Jerusalem construction plans". Timesofisrael.com. Retrieved January 6, 2013. 
  331. **^** Blood Libel, the Short History of a Dangerous Myth, CNN, August 6, 2014.
  332. **^** Will Hamas recognize Israel as a Jewish state?, CBS News, July 27, 2014.
  333. **^** "Tunisian Islamists slam anti-Semitic chants". Ynetnews. Associated Press. January 10, 2012. Retrieved  January 10, 2012. 
  334. **^** Miller, Elhanan (July 8, 2012). "Contradicting Abbas, Hamas says it still believes in 'armed resistance' against Israel". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved  July 10, 2012. 
  335. **^** David Cronin (May 15, 2009). "Hamas against Zionism, not Judaism". _Arab American News_. Retrieved  January 10, 2012. 
  336. **^** Basim Naim (January 13, 2009). "We believe in resistance, not revenge". _The Guardian_ (opinion). London. Retrieved  January 10, 2012. Hamas has no quarrel with Jews, only with the actions of Israel 
  337. **^** Israel Cracks Down on Islamic Group. Oct. 24, 1994, Pg. 1.
  338. **^** "Palestinian Holocaust Denial". The Washington Institute for Near East Policy. 2000-04-21. Retrieved  2013-01-06. 
  339. **^** https://web.archive.org/web/20060207040823/http://www.ajn.com.au/pages/archives/feature/feature-03a.html. Archived from the original on February 7, 2006. Retrieved  September 16, 2010.  Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  340. **^** Iran leader's Holocaust remarks condemned MSNBC, December 14, 2005
  341. **^** "Hamas springs to Iran's defense" Al Jazeera, December 15, 2005
  342. **^** "Hamas condemns the Holocaust" _The Guardian_ , May 12, 2008
  343. **^** Hamas rips UN over Holocaust lessons, _The Jerusalem Post_ September 30, 2009
  344. **^** Hadid, Diaa (August 31, 2009). "Hamas leader denies Nazi genocide of Jews". _The New York Times_. Associated Press. Retrieved  August 31, 2009. 
  345. **^** "Hamas rips U.N. for teaching the Holocaust". Archived September 4, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. _JTA_. August 31, 2009. August 31, 2009.
  346. **^** Sherwood, Harriet (February 28, 2011). "Hamas fights UN's 'poisonous' Holocaust lessons in Gazan schools". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  July 10, 2012. 
  347. **^** "Hamas to U.N.: Don't Teach Holocaust". _The Jewish Week_. March 1, 2011.  
  348. **^** "Hamas: PA official's Auschwitz visit served Zionists". _The Jerusalem Post_. August 2, 2012. Retrieved  2 August 2012. 
  349. **^** Miller, Elhanan (August 2, 2012). "PA official's visit to Auschwitz sparks widening condemnation". The Times of Israel. Retrieved August 2, 2012. 
  350. **^** "Hamas 'blasts Palestinian official's Auschwitz visit '". BBC. August 2, 2012. Retrieved August 2, 2012. 
  351. **^** "Hamas blasts Palestinian official's Auschwitz trip". Ynetnews. Associated Press. August 2, 2012. Retrieved  August 2, 2012. 
  352. **^** Abu, Khaled (October 17, 2012). "Hamas opposes Holocaust study at UNRWA schools". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  January 6, 2013. 
  353. **^** Madelene Axelsson (January 27, 2006). "Islamistisk politik vinner mark" (in Swedish). Stockholms Fria Tidning. 
  354. **^** Israel At 'War to the Bitter End,' Strikes Key Hamas Sites December 29, 2008, Fox News
  355. **^** _Hamas in Politics_ , By Jeroen Gunning, pp. 128–129, search at Books.Google.com; see also The Rise of Hamas, by Paul W. Pope, at Dartmouth.edu Archived September 6, 2015, at the Wayback Machine.
  356. **^** No End to War, by Walter Laqueur, p. 107. "[I]n 1993–1994 when Hamas ... enlisted experts for bomb making, and the first suicide bombers went into action. Some of the very early operations aborted. The first successful suicide bomb attack occurred in the Jordan Valley in October 1993. The first bus attack happened in Afula in northern Israel in April 1994 ..." Search at Books.Google.com
  357. **^** Suicide car bomb kills two near West Bank restaurant Associated Press, April 17, 1993
  358. **^** United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees. "Refworld | Erased In A Moment: Suicide Bombing Attacks Against Israeli Civilians". UNHCR. Retrieved March 27, 2013. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  359. **^** Saarnivaara, Minn (2008). "Suicide Campaigns as a Strategic Choice: The Case of Hamas". _Policing_. **2** (4): 423–433. doi:10.1093/police/pan061.  
  360. **^** Erased In A Moment: Suicide Bombing Attacks Against Israeli Civilians V. Structures and Strategies of the Perpetrator Organizations, Human Rights Watch, October 2002. ISBN 1-56432-280-7
  361. **^** "Indiscriminate Fire, Palestinian Rocket Attacks on Israel and Israeli Artillery Shelling in the Gaza Strip". Human Rights Watch. June 30, 2007. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  362. **^** "Civilians under Assault, Hezbollah's Rocket Attacks on Israel in the 2006 War". Human Rights Watch. August 28, 2007. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  363. **^** "Top Hamas fugitive nabbed". Ynetnews.com. May 23, 2006.  
  364. **^** Barak Ravid (March 17, 2009). "Who are the deadly terrorists Israel refuses to release for Shalit?". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  April 16, 2014. 
  365. **^** McCarthy, Rory (2008-02-05). "Hamas says it was behind suicide blast in Israel". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  2014-09-22. 
  366. **^** News Agencies and Haaretz Service (2008-07-27). "Israeli troops in Hebron kill Hamas man behind Dimona attack". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  2014-09-22. 
  367. **^** Anti-Israeli Terrorism in 2007 and its Trends in 2008 (PDF). _Intelligence and Terrorism Information Cente_ (Report). Israel Intelligence Heritage and Commemoration Center. May 2008. pp.  11, 28. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 13, 2009. Retrieved June 5, 2010. 
  368. **^** "Victims of Palestinian Violence and Terrorism since September 2000". _GxMSDev_. Archived from the original on April 3, 2007. Retrieved  July 17, 2015. 
  369. **^** BICOM Fact Sheet 2: Ashkelon – The Changing Scenario [ _permanent dead link_ ] BICOM. 2008-05-03.
  370. **^** "Mashaal offers to cease civilian attacks". Archived from the original on April 3, 2008. Retrieved  June 1, 2016.  March 31, 2008, _The Jerusalem Post_
  371. **^** Qassam lands in western Negev, no injuries Ynetnews November 20, 2008
  372. **^** "Netanyahu blames Hamas for the kidnapping of the three Israeli teens". _Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  19 July 2014. 
  373. **^** "Hamas genocidal terrorists says Netanyahu". _Israel News.Net_. Retrieved  19 July 2014. 
  374. **^** "Kidnap and murder of Israeli teens: Palestinian suspect held, police say". _The Times of India_. Retrieved  July 17, 2015. 
  375. **^** "Palestinian suspect held over kidnap murders of 3 Israelis". _The Rakyat Post_. Retrieved  July 17, 2015. 
  376. **^** "Israel arrests suspected ringleader of cell that killed teens". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved  July 17, 2015. 
  377. **^** Jack Khoury, Hamas claims responsibility for three Israeli teens' kidnapping and murder,' _Haaretz_ 21 August 2014.
  378. **^** http://memritv.org. "MEMRI: Hamas Leadership Acknowledges Responsibility for Kidnapping Three Israeli Teens". Memritv.org. Retrieved  22 August 2014. 
  379. **^** 'Mashal: Hamas was behind murder of three Israeli teens,' Ynet22 August 2014.
  380. **^** Isikoff, Michael (2014-08-25). "In personal plea, top Hamas leader calls on Obama to stop 'holocaust' in Gaza". Yahoo! News. Retrieved 2014-09-02. 
  381. **^** Toronto, Nathan W. (2008-04-20). "Where Have All the Bombers Gone?". _Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya_. Retrieved  2016-09-23. 
  382. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "HRW: Hamas rockets from Gaza violated laws of war". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  December 24, 2012. 
  383. **^** HRW report April 11, 2010
  384. **^** Al-Mughrabi, Nidal (February 5, 2010). "Hamas "regrets" civilian deaths, Israel unmoved". Reuters. 
  385. **^** Baker, Luke (24 August 2014). "Israel says it found Hamas training manual in Gaza". Reuters. Retrieved 25 August 2014. 
  386. **^** Halevi, Jonathan D. (4 August 2014). "The Hamas Threat to the West Is No Different from ISIS". Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs. Retrieved 25 August 2014. 
  387. **^** Steven Lee Myers and Helene Cooper, Obama Defers to Bush, for Now, on Gaza Crisis, New York Times December 28, 2009
  388. **^** U.S. Condemns Hamas in Midst of Israeli Strikes, Fox News December 28, 2008
  389. **^** Clinton calls for 'durable' Gaza truce, condemns rockets, AFP March 2, 2009
  390. **^** "IDF general lays out plan for reviving Gaza economy". _Haaretz_. The Associated Press. October 26, 2010. Retrieved  June 7, 2013. 
  391. **^** Weiss, Mark (September 4, 2010). "Islamist groups attempt to derail Middle East talks". _Irish Times_.  
  392. **^** "Hamas targets Israeli-Palestinian talks by killing four Israelis; Hamas took responsibility for the fatal shooting of four Israeli settlers outside Hebron today, on the eve of Israeli-Palestinian talks in Washington," Joshua Mitnick, August 31, 2010, _Christian Science Monitor_.
  393. **^** "Hamas to launch 'more effective attacks' on Israel". _The Jerusalem Post_. September 3, 2010.  
  394. **^** "The Shadow of Hamas". _The Washington Post_. September 8, 2010. Retrieved  September 7, 2013. 
  395. **^** Gaza militants vow wave of attacks against Israel, Reuters September 2, 2010
  396. **^** Kershner, Isabel; Landler, Mark (August 31, 2010). "Israeli Settlers Killed in West Bank". _New York Times_. Retrieved  September 7, 2013. 
  397. **^** Liel, Alon. "Abbas condemns Hamas attack; 4 Israelis shot dead". _The Jerusalem Post_. Archived from the original on September 1, 2010. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  398. **^** "US says Hebron attack must not derail Middle East talks". _BBC News_. September 1, 2010.  
  399. **^** "4 Israelis killed by Hamas". News.xinhuanet.com. September 1, 2010. Archived from the original on August 7, 2011. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  400. **^** "Hamas official: Israeli settlers are a legitimate military target". _Haaretz_. September 1, 2010. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  401. **^** "Hamas explains using civilians as human shields", _Palestinian Media Watch_ , (December 28, 2008).
  402. **^** "Hamas PLC Speaker Ahmad Bahr: 2.5 Million Virgins Await the Prophets, the Righteous, and the Martyrs in a Single Palace in the Garden of Eden". The Middle East Research Institute,. September 13, 2010. Retrieved  September 7, 2013. 
  403. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Report: Hamas weighing large-scale conflict with Israel". Ynetnews. October 3, 2006.  
  404. **^** Issam Aburaiya (October 3, 2006). "Hamas and Palestinian Nationalism" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on February 23, 2011. 
  405. **^** "Fatah, Hamas gunbattles kill 7". _Toronto Star_. October 1, 2006. Archived from the original on August 5, 2011.  
  406. **^** Yosif Mahmoud Haj-Yahis; et al. (2009). "Alleged Palestinian Collaborators with Israel and Their Families: A Study of Victims of Internal Political Violence". Harry S. Truman Research Institute for the Advancement of Peace, Hebrew University of Jerusalem. pp. 18–19.  Missing or empty `|url=` (help)
  407. **^** Kalman, Matthew (January 22, 2009). "Hamas executes suspected Fatah traitors in Gaza". _San Francisco Chronicle_. Retrieved  September 7, 2013. 
  408. **^** The Associated Press (November 20, 2012). "Hamas militants kill 6 suspected informers, witnesses say – World – CBC News". Cbc.ca. Retrieved January 6, 2013. 
  409. **^** "Rights group pans Hamas for not probing executions". _The Times of Israel_.  
  410. **^** "Large number of alleged Israeli informers killed in Gaza". _Palestinian News.Net_. 22 August 2014. Retrieved  23 August 2014. 
  411. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Klein, Aaron J.; Ginsburg, Mitch (2014-09-03). "None of alleged Gaza collaborators were Israeli assets, intel official says". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved  2014-09-23. 
  412. **^** "Middle East | Unrest erupts in Gaza Strip". BBC News. July 3, 2002. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  413. **^** Levinson, Charles (June 10, 2007). "Shot by their own side, healed by the enemy – Telegraph". London: Telegraph.co.uk. Retrieved May 27, 2010. 
  414. **^** "Gaza: Armed Palestinian Groups Commit Grave Crimes". Human Rights Watch. June 13, 2007.  
  415. **^** "Mosque gun battle rages in Gaza". London: BBC News. August 14, 2009.  
  416. **^** "Gaza Islamist leader dies in raid". London: BBC News. August 15, 2009.  
  417. **^** "More than 120 youths were killed by Hamas because they did not abide by the house arrest imposed on them. This is in addition to the extrajudicial execution of 30–40 people during the Israeli assault."http://www.jpost.com/Arab-Israeli-Conflict/Abbas-hints-PA-close-to-ending-unity-deal-with-Hamas-374626
  418. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ben, Ariel. "Hamas denies 32 of its operatives killed in Sinai | JPost | Israel News". JPost. Retrieved 2014-08-02. 
  419. **^** Ben, Ricky (2013-08-28). "Five Hamas members arrested over Egyptian police massacre". The Times of Israel. Retrieved 2014-08-02. 
  420. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Top News, Latest headlines, Latest News, World News & U.S News - UPI.com". Onswipe.upi.com. July 29, 2014. Archived from the original on November 22, 2013. Retrieved  August 2, 2014. 
  421. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Issacharoff, Avi (2013-08-22). "Egypt's ire raised as Hamas harbors Sinai jihadists". _The Times of Israel_. Retrieved  2014-09-30. Their leader, Mohammed Dormosh, is well known for his ties to the Hamas leadership. 
  422. **^** Egypt Opens Murder, Conspiracy Investigation Against Morsi. _NPR_. 2013-07-26.
  423. **^** Morsi accused of plotting with Hamas. _Al Jazeera English_. 2013-07-26.
  424. **^** "Egypt blames Gaza group for bombing". _Al Jazeera_. January 23, 2011. Archived from the original on October 6, 2014. Retrieved  September 30, 2014. 
  425. **^** Gold, Dore (2014-04-27). "The Myth of the Moderate Hamas". Jerusalem Center for Public Affairs. Retrieved 2014-09-30. 
  426. **^** "Army of Islam says Shalit now solely under control of Hamas". _Haaretz_. 2007-07-04. Retrieved  2014-09-30. We at Army of Islam made the preparations for operation 'Dissipating Illusion,' which was carried out in cooperation with the Al Aqsa Martyrs' Brigade and the Popular Resistance Committees Salah a-Din. We kidnapped Gilad Shalit and handed him over to Hamas. 
  427. **^** "Egyptian interior minister accuses Hamas of supporting Mansoura attackers". _Al-Ahram_. 2014-01-02. Retrieved  2014-09-30. 
  428. **^** Matthew Levitt, pp.143–169.
  429. **^** Krista Wiegand, _Bombs and Ballots: Governance by Islamist Terrorist and Guerrilla Groups,_ Ashgate Publishing, Revised edition 2013 p.124.'Officially, Hamas is considered by American and Israeli policymakers and some academics as the epitome of a terrorist group. . .Due to the gravity and consequences of Hamas's use of terrorism as a tactic, all other aspects of Hamas, including its extensive social services programs and its role as a political party are overshadowed and often ignored by policy makers. Others recognize the complexity of Hamas as an organization and suggest that Hamas will continue to transform itself into a full political party and eventually disarm and cease all violent tactics. They view Hamas as a complex organization with terrorism as only one component, which is likely to evolve into a non-violent political party.
  430. **^** Luke Peterson , _Palestine-Israel in the Print News Media: Contending Discourses,_ Routledge 2014 p.99.
  431. **^** Aaron Mannes, _Profiles in Terror: The Guide to Middle East Terrorist Organizations,_ Rowman & Littlefield, 2003 p.114.
  432. **^** _The World Almanac of Islamism: 2014,_ American Foreign Policy Council/Rowman & Littlefield, 2014 p.15.
  433. **^** Levitt, pp.50–51.
  434. **^** Statement by High Representative/Vice-President Federica Mogherini on the decision to appeal the Judgment regarding Hamas, 19/01/2015
  435. **^** Benedetta Voltalini and Federica Bicchi, 'When Security Trumps Democracy:Israel and Palestined,' Anne Wetzel, Jan Orbie (eds.), _The Substance of EU Democracy Promotion: Concepts and Cases,_ Palgrave Macmillan, 2015 pp 162–176 p. 170:'This example shows how the declared substance of EU democracy promotion can change in the implementation phase. While supporting the elections in the Occupied Territories and confirming their regular development, the EU was not willing to accept the results in the light of perceived security concerns and mounting pressure from the US and Israel to boycott Hamas./
  436. **^** "EU court keeps Hamas on terrorism list, removes Tamil Tigers". Retuers. 26 July 2017.  The lower court had found that the listing was based on media and internet reports rather than decisions by a "competent authority". But the ECJ said such decisions were not required for groups to stay on the list, only for their initial listing. 
  437. **^** 'Hamas Should Be Taken Off Terror List, EU Legal Adviser Says ,' Haaretz 22 September 2016.
  438. **^** 'Egyptian court declares Hamas a 'terrorist' group', Al Jazeera 28 February 2015.
  439. **^** "Saudi Ambassador to Algeria: Hamas is a terrorist group". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  14 July 2017. 
  440. **^** According to Michael Penn, ( _Japan and the War on Terror: Military Force and Political Pressure in the US-Japanese Alliance_, I.B. Tauris 2014 pp.205–206), Japan initially welcomed the democratic character of the elections that brought Hamas to power, and only set conditions on its aid to Palestine, after intense pressure was exerted by the Bush Administration on Japan to alter its policy.
  441. **^** "Lists associated with Resolution 1373". New Zealand Police. 20 July 2014.  
  442. **^** David Sobek, _The Causes of War,_ John Wiley & Sons, 2013 p.45.
  443. **^** Levitt, p.49.
  444. **^** Alethia H. Cook, 'The Subtle Impact of Iran on the Flotilla Incident,' in Thomas E. Copeland (ed.), _Drawing a Line in the Sea: The Gaza Flotilla Incident and the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict,_ Lexington Books, 2011 pp.35–44, p.36.
  445. **^** Robert O. Freedman, 'Russia,' in Joel Peters, David Newman (eds.), _The Routledge Handbook on the Israeli-Palestinian Conflict,_ Routledge, 2013 pp.325–333 p.331
  446. **^** Ioannis Tellidis, Harmonie Toros (eds.), _Terrorism: Bridging the Gap with Peace and Conflict Studies: Investigating the Crossroad,_ Routledge, 2016 p.199:'In 2006, Norway explicitly distanced itself from the EU proscription regime, claiming that it was causing problems for its role as a 'neutral facilitator'.'
  447. **^** Swiss Federal Council (2016-05-11), _Verbindungen des EDA zur Hamas_ (Statement regarding interpellation # 16.3151 from 2016-03-17 by Erich Siebenthal, member of the National Council), The Swiss parliament , retrieved 2017-06-05 
  448. **^** David J. Whittaker (ed.), _The Terrorism Reader,_ Routledge (2001) 2012 p.84.
  449. **^** Samuel Feldberg,'Israel and Brazil:An Emerging Power and its Quest for Influence in the Middle East,' in Colin Shindler (ed.), _The World Powers:Diplomatic Alliances and International Relations Beyond the Middle East,_ I.B.Tauris 2014.pp.187–199
  450. **^** "Gaza: Palestinian Rockets Unlawfully Targeted Israeli Civilians". HRW. Retrieved  December 24, 2012. 
  451. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Steven Erlanger (January 10, 2009). "A Gaza War Full of Traps and Trickery". _The New York Times_. Israel;Gaza Strip. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  452. **^** Hamas used almost 100 mosques for military purposes. _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved on 2010-08-21.
  453. **^** "Ground war in Gaza drives up civilian casualties". _MLive_. Associated Press. January 7, 2009. Retrieved  June 7, 2013. 
  454. **^** "Video: Hamas uses civilians as a means to achieving military goals". _Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs_. January 11, 2009. January 13, 2009.
  455. **^** "Video: Hamas uses civilians as a means to achieving military goals". 2009\. _Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs_. See 4:00 in the video.
  456. **^** "Hamas's human shields". _The Jerusalem Post_. March 4, 2008. January 13, 2009.
  457. **^** "Weapons Hidden in Mosque Neutralized by Israel Air Force Dec 31, 2008". on YouTube December 31, 2008. January 13, 2009.
  458. **^** Barzak, Ibrahim and Matti Friedman. "Israel Destroys Hamas Homes, Gaza Mosque". Archived January 2, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. _Time_. January 2, 2009. January 13, 2009.
  459. **^** Mizroch, Amir. "Dichter: Hamas salaries paid at Shifa Hospital". _The Jerusalem Post_. January 12, 2009. January 13, 2009.
  460. **^** IDF morality exemplified at mosque. _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved on 2010-08-21.
  461. **^** "Gaza Operation Investigations: Second Update". Mfa.gov.il. Retrieved  August 24, 2010. 
  462. **^** "Gaza Operations Investigations: Second Update July 2010" (PDF). Retrieved August 24, 2010. 
  463. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Hamas rocket attacks 'war crimes '". BBC News. August 6, 2009. Retrieved August 2, 2011. 
  464. **^** Amos Harel (January 12, 2009). "IDF investigation shows errant mortar hit UN building in Gaza". _Haaretz_. Retrieved  April 16, 2014. 
  465. **^** Turning a Blind Eye Human Rights Watch April 11, 2010
  466. **^** Israel: Investigate 'White Flag' Shootings of Gaza Civilians Human Rights Watch August 13, 2009
  467. **^** "Israeli 'human shield' claim is full of holes" Archived April 19, 2014, at the Wayback Machine. _The National_ (UAE) January 13, 2009.
  468. **^** "Hamas Spokesman Sami Abu Zuhri: Human-Shield Policy Is Effecive". YouTube.com. 2014-07-09. Retrieved  2014-08-02. 
  469. **^** Zahran, Mudar (2014-09-19). "Gazans Speak Out: Hamas War Crimes". Gatestone Institute. Archived from the original on 2014-09-21. Retrieved 2014-09-30. 
  470. **^** "A Soldier's Account from Gaza: How Hamas Used Human Shields". IDF Blog. 2014-08-25. Retrieved  2014-09-30. 
  471. **^** "An IDF Soldier's Experiences in Gaza". IDF Blog. 2014-09-21. Retrieved  2014-09-30. 
  472. **^** "First Hand Account of Gaza Operation by Wounded IDF Soldier". IDF Blog. 2014-08-05. Retrieved  2014-09-30. 
  473. **^** "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on August 13, 2011. Retrieved 2010-06-14.  Hamas and the Terrorist Threat from the Gaza Strip The Main Findings of the Goldstone ReportVersus the Factual Findings, Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center.
  474. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Human Rights Watch Statement on our November 22 Press Release". Human Rights Watch. Retrieved  2012-11-20. 
  475. **^** Human shield deters Israel strike BBC News November 19, 2006
  476. **^** "Hamas's human shields". _The Jerusalem Post_. March 4, 2008. November 15, 2009.
  477. **^** _OPT: Civilians Must Not Be Used to Shield Homes Against Military Attacks_ Human Rights Watch November 22, 2006
  478. **^** Human Rights Council (September 15, 2009). "Human Rights in Palestine and Other Occupied Arab Territories: Report of the United Nations Fact Finding Mission on the Gaza Conflict" (PDF). _unrol.org_. United Nations. p. 147\. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 3, 2015. Retrieved June 3, 2015. 
  479. **^** "Dealing with Hamas's human shield tactics". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  December 26, 2012. 
  480. **^** Goodenough, Patrick. (2009-10-16) Israelis Took Unprecedented Steps to Safeguard Civilians, Says British Officer Archived July 29, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.. CNSnews.com. Retrieved on 2011-06-18.
  481. **^** U.K. Commander Challenges Goldstone Report. Archived October 19, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. UN Watch. Retrieved on 2011-06-18.
  482. **^** Professor David W Lovell; Professor Igor Primoratz (28 April 2013). _Protecting Civilians During Violent Conflict: Theoretical and Practical Issues for the 21st Century_. Ashgate Publishing, Ltd. p. 344\. ISBN 978-1-4094-7685-6.  
  483. **^** "Video: Hamas uses civilians as a means to achieving military goals". 2009\. _Israel Ministry of Foreign Affairs_. See 06:46 through 08:00 in the video.
  484. **^** Youths' Suicide Mission Stuns Palestinians ABC April 25, 2002
  485. **^** Teenage Suicide Bombers Archived December 12, 2009, at the Wayback Machine. MEF 2002
  486. **^** Freimann, Myer (2014-07-25). "Hamas Killed 160 Palestinian Children to Build Tunnels". Tablet. Retrieved 2014-08-07. 
  487. **^** "Hamas forces try to arrest prominent Gaza journalist –". _International Herald Tribune_. March 29, 2009. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  488. **^** Spokesperson of Presidency Condemns Hamas Militias New Crimes against Citizens in Gaza Strip, WAFA, August 31, 2007.
  489. **^** Hamas disbands journalists union amid continuing incidents, Reporters without borders, September 6, 2007
  490. **^** "Hamas widens crackdown on journalists in Gaza". B92. November 15, 2007. Archived from the original on December 7, 2008. Retrieved  July 4, 2008. Gaza's Interior Ministry announced that journalists who do not hold official Hamas-issued press cards would not be allowed to work in Gaza. 
  491. **^** Martin, Paul (November 13, 2007). "On-the-spot: 'I was arrested by Hamas' – Times Online". London: Timesonline.co.uk. Retrieved December 29, 2008. 
  492. **^** Hamas de facto government bans distribution of Al-Ayyam newspaper in the Gaza Strip Ma'an News Agency, February 10, 2008
  493. **^** "Hamas orders closure of newspaper over caricature –". International Herald Tribune. March 29, 2009. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  494. **^** "Maan News Agency". Maannews.net. Retrieved  May 27, 2010. 
  495. **^** Levinson, Charles (August 26, 2007). "Hamas honeymoon ends with torture". London: The Telegraph. Retrieved May 17, 2008. 
  496. **^** al-Mughrabi, Nidal. "Gaza clinics closed, retaliation for doctor strikes". _Reuters_. August 28, 2007. November 14, 2009.
  497. **^** Hamas blocks Fatah protests in Gaza, Ynetnews, September 7, 2007
  498. **^** Hamas frees Fatah prisoners, Al-Jazeera, October 30, 2008.
  499. **^** "IFJ Condemns Hamas Meddling in Gaza Journalists' Affairs". International Federation of Journalists. August 2, 2012. Archived from the original on August 15, 2012. Retrieved  August 8, 2012. 
  500. **^** "PCHR slams Hamas for preventing journalists from traveling". Maannews.net. Retrieved  January 6, 2013. 
  501. **^** "Reporters Without Borders condemns Hamas for". _Maan News Agency_. Retrieved  March 8, 2016. 
  502. **^** Liel, Alon. "'PA bans journalists from reporting human rights abuses'". _The Jerusalem Post_. Retrieved  August 1, 2011. 
  503. **^** "Rights group: Hamas abusing Palestinians in Gaza". Ynetnews.com. Retrieved  January 6, 2013. 
  504. **^** "World Report 2012: Israel/Occupied Palestinian Territories". Human Rights Watch. January 22, 2012. Retrieved  January 6, 2013. 
  505. **^** Nidal al-Mughrabi. "Hamas disputes HRW's charges of torture, detentions in Gaza | Reuters". Reuters. Retrieved January 6, 2013. 
  506. **^** "Palestine (State of): 'Strangling Necks' Abductions, torture and summary killings of Palestinians by Hamas forces during the 2014 Gaza/Israel conflict" (pdf). _amnesty.org_. United Kingdom: Amnesty International. 26 May 2015. Retrieved  27 May 2015. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  507. **^** "Gaza Palestinians tortured, summarily killed by Hamas forces during 2014 conflict". _Amnesty International_. 27 May 2015. Archived from the original on 27 May 2015. Retrieved  27 May 2015. 
  508. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Schanzer, Jonathan. "How Hamas Lost the Arab Spring". 
  509. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "Hamas Still Has Some Friends Left".  
  510. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Hamas Ties to Qatar Have Cost". April 22, 2013.  
  511. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ CATF Reports. "Is Gaza Reconstruction Aid Rearming Hamas?". Consortium Against Terrorist Finance. 
  512. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Why does Qatar support Hamas?". September 14, 2014.  
  513. **^** Levs, Josh. "Which Mideast power brokers support Hamas?". CNN. 
  514. **^** "Husam Badran". BBC Watch.  
  515. **^** "Murderers' Row: Who are the terrorists being freed in the Shalit deal?". October 18, 2011.  
  516. **^** CATF Reports (March 18, 2016). "A Rising Terror Threat: Hamas, Underground Tunnels, and Remote Control". Consortium Against Terrorist Finance. 
  517. **^** "Why Israel Lets Qatar Give Millions To Hamas".  
  518. **^** Hamas supports military operation for political legitimacy in Yemen. Arab News. 30 March 2015.
  519. **^** "Former Treasury Official: Same Network That Funded Hamas in U.S. Backs Boycotts of Israel".  
  520. **^** "Ties between Hamas-linked charities and BDS highlighted in Congressional testimony".  

### Bibliography

  * Mishal, Shaul; Sela, Avraham (2006). _The Palestinian Hamas: Vision, Violence, and Coexistence_. New York: Columbia University Press. ISBN 978-0231140072.  
  * Mueller, Sebastian (June 6, 2006). _Hawala. An Informal Payment System and Its Use to Finance Terrorism_ (1st ed.). Saarbrücken, Germany: VDM Verlag. p. 84\. ISBN 978-3-86550-656-6.  
  * Roy, Sara (2011). _Hamas and Civil Society in Gaza: Engaging the Islamist Social Sector_. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-12448-3.  
  * Yousef, Mosab Hassan (March 3, 2010). _Son of Hamas_. Carol Stream, Illinois: Tyndale House. p. 288\. ISBN 978-1-4143-3307-6.  

## External links

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to:

_**Hamas**_ (category)  
  
---|---  
|  Wikiquote has quotations related to: _**Hamas**_  
---|---  
  
  * Official website (in English)
  * Official website (in Arabic)
  * Britannica
  * Hamas leaders CFR
  * Hamas Charter
  * The Covenant of the Islamic Resistance Movement (Hamas) (includes interpretation)
  * Hamas Shifts From Rockets to Public Relations _The New York Times_ , July 23, 2009
  * 22 years on the start of Hamas Al-Qassam Brigades' Information Office
  * Fatah and Hamas Human Rights Violations in the Palestinian Occupied Territories in 2007 by Elizabeth Freed of Palestinian Human Rights Monitoring Group
  * Sadiki, Larbi, Tests and contests: Hamas without Syria
  * Sherifa Zuhur, Hamas and Israel: Conflicting Strategies of Group-Based Politics (PDF file) December 2008
  * "Hamas threatens attacks on US: Terrorist warns 'Middle East is full of American targets'" _Ynet News_. December 24, 2006. Accessed July 20, 2014.

  * v
  * t
  * e

Political parties in Palestine  
  
---  
Palestinian  
Legislative  
Council |

  * Hamas (74)
  * Fatah (45)
  * Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine (PFLP) (3)
  * Palestinian National Initiative (PNI) (2)
  * Third Way (2)
  * Democratic Front for the Liberation of Palestine (DFLP) (1)
  * Palestinian People's Party (PPP) (1)

  
  
Other |

  * Arab Liberation Front (ALF)
  * As-Sa'iqa
  * Islamic Jihad Movement in Palestine (PIJ)
  * Palestine Liberation Front (PLF)
  * Palestinian Arab Front (PAF)
  * Palestinian Communist Party (PCP)
  * Palestinian Democratic Union (FIDA)
  * Palestinian Popular Struggle Front (PPSF)
  * Popular Front for the Liberation of Palestine – General Command (PFLP–GC)
  * Revolutionary Palestinian Communist Party (RPCP)

  
  
  * Politics of the Palestinian National Authority
  * Lists of political parties
  * Politics portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Islamism  
  
---  
  
| Outline |

  * Islamism
  * Qutbism
  * Salafism
    * Salafi jihadism
  * Shia Islamism

  
  
---|---  
Concepts |

  * Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists
  * Islamic democracy
  * Islamic socialism
  * Islamic state
    * Islamic monarchy
    * Islamic republic
  * Islamistan
  * Islamization
    * of knowledge
  * Pan-Islamism
  * Post-Islamism
  * Sharia
  * _Shura_
  * Turkish model
  * Two-nation theory
  * Ummah

  
  
Movements |

| Socio-  
political |

  * Deobandi
  * Hizb ut-Tahrir
    * in Britain
    * in Central Asia
  * Islamic Defenders Front
  * Jamaat-e-Islami
  * Millî Görüş
  * Muslim Brotherhood
    * in Egypt
    * in Syria

  
  
---|---  
Political  
Party |

  * Freedom and Justice Party
  * Green Algeria Alliance
  * Hadas
  * Hezbollah
  * Islamic Salvation Front
  * Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan
  * Jamiat-e Islami
  * Justice and Construction Party
  * Justice and Development Party (Morocco)
  * National Congress
  * National Iraqi Alliance
  * Malaysian Islamic Party
  * Prosperous Justice Party
  * Al Wefaq
  * Welfare Party

  
  
Related |

  * Ennahda Movement
  * Gülen movement
  * Islamic Modernism
  * Justice and Development Party (Turkey)

  
  
Theorists and  
political leaders

|

  * Muhammad Abduh
  * Jamāl al-Dīn al-Afghānī
  * Qazi Hussain Ahmad
  * Muhammad Asad
  * Hasan al-Banna
  * Necmettin Erbakan
  * Muammar Gaddafi
  * Rached Ghannouchi
  * Safwat Hegazi
  * Muhammad Iqbal
  * Alija Izetbegović
  * Ali Khamenei
  * Ruhollah Khomeini
  * Abul Ala Maududi
  * Taqi al-Din al-Nabhani
  * Yusuf al-Qaradawi
  * Sayyid Qutb
  * Tariq Ramadan
  * Ata Abu Rashta
  * Rashid Rida
  * Navvab Safavi
  * Ali Shariati
  * Haji Shariatullah
  * Hassan al-Turabi
  * Ahmad Yassin
  * Zia-ul-Haq

  
  
|

Salafi movement  
  
---  
  
| Movements |

| Scholastic |

  * Ahl-i Hadith
  * Madkhalism
  * Sahwa movement
  * Wahhabism

  
  
---|---  
Political |

  * Al Asalah
  * Authenticity Party
  * Al-Islah
  * Al-Nour Party
    * Islamist Bloc
  * People Party
  * Young Kashgar Party

  
  
Major figures |

  * Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab
  * Nasiruddin Albani
  * Abd al-Aziz ibn Baz
  * Muqbil bin Hadi al-Wadi'i
  * Safar al-Hawali
  * Rabee al-Madkhali
  * Muhammad Al-Munajjid
  * Zakir Naik
  * Salman al-Ouda
  * Ali al-Tamimi
  * Ibn al Uthaymeen

  
  
Related |

  * International propagation of Salafism and Wahhabism
  * Islamic religious police
  * Petro-Islam
  * Sufi-Salafi relations

  
  
|

Militant Islamism/Jihadism  
  
---  
  
| Ideology |

  * Qutbism
  * Salafi jihadism

  
  
---|---  
Movements |

  * Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan
  * Militant Islamism based in 
    * MENA region
      * Egyptian Islamic Jihad
      * Fatah al-Islam
      * Hamas
      * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
    * South Asia
      * Lashkar-e-Taiba
      * Taliban
    * Southeast Asia
      * Abu Sayyaf
    * Sub-Saharan Africa
      * Boko Haram
      * al-Shabaab
  * al-Qaeda
    * in the Arabian Peninsula
    * in Iraq
    * in North Africa

  
  
Major figures |

  * Anwar al-Awlaki
  * Abdullah Yusuf Azzam
  * Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi
  * Osama bin Laden
  * Mohammed Omar
  * Juhayman al-Otaybi
  * Omar Abdel-Rahman
  * Ayman al-Zawahiri

  
  
Related |

  * Islamic extremism
  * Islamic terrorism
  * Jihad
  * Slavery
  * Talibanization
  * Worldwide Caliphate

  
  
| Texts |

  * _Reconstruction_ (Iqbal, 1930s)
  * _Forty Hadith_ (Khomeini, 1940)
  * _Principles_ (Asad, 1961)
  * _Milestones_ (Qutb, 1964)
  * _Islamic Government_ (Khomeini, 1970)
  * _Islamic Declaration_ (Izetbegović, 1969-1970)
  * _The Green Book_ (Gaddafi, 1975)

  
  
---|---  
Historical  
events |

  * Zia-ul-Haq's Islamization
  * Iranian Revolution
  * Grand Mosque seizure
  * Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
  * Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam
  * Popular Arab and Islamic Congress
  * Algerian Civil War
  * September 11 attacks
  * War on Terror
  * Arab Spring
  * Arab Winter

  
  
Influences |

  * Anti-imperialism
  * Anti-Zionism
  * Islamic response to modernity
  * Islamic revival
  * Modern Islamic philosophy

  
  
by region |

  * Balkans
  * Gaza Strip
  * United Kingdom

  
  
Related topics |

  * Criticism
    * Ed Husain
  * Political aspects of Islam
  * Political Islam

  
  
  * Islamism in 
    * South Asia
    * North Africa

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Israeli–Palestinian conflict  
  
---  
  
|

Participants  
  
---  
  
| Israel |

  * Israel Defense Forces
  * Israel Police
  * Mossad
  * Shabak (Shin Bet)

  
  
---|---  
Palestinians |

| Principals |

  * Palestinian National Authority
  * Palestine Liberation Organization (PLO)
  * Fatah
  * Hamas

  
  
---|---  
Other groups |

  * al-Aqsa Brigades
  * DFLP
  * PLF
  * PIJ
  * PPSF
  * PFLP
  * PFLP-GC
  * PRC

  
  
Third-party groups |

  * Arab League
  * Hezbollah

  
  
|

Individuals  
  
---  
  
| Israelis |

  * Moshe Arens
  * Ami Ayalon
  * Ehud Barak
  * Menachem Begin
  * Meir Dagan
  * Moshe Dayan
  * Avi Dichter
  * Yuval Diskin
  * David Ben-Gurion
  * Efraim Halevy
  * Dan Halutz
  * Tzipi Livni
  * Golda Meir
  * Shaul Mofaz
  * Yitzhak Mordechai
  * Benjamin Netanyahu
  * Ehud Olmert
  * Shimon Peres
  * Yaakov Peri
  * Yitzhak Rabin
  * Amnon Lipkin-Shahak
  * Yitzhak Shamir
  * Ariel Sharon
  * Shabtai Shavit
  * Moshe Ya'alon
  * Danny Yatom
  * Zvi Zamir

  
  
---|---  
Palestinians |

  * Abu Abbas
  * Mahmoud Abbas
  * Moussa Arafat
  * Yasser Arafat
  * Yahya Ayyash
  * Marwan Barghouti
  * Mohammed Dahlan
  * Mohammed Deif
  * George Habash
  * Wadie Haddad
  * Ismail Haniyeh
  * Nayef Hawatmeh
  * Amin al-Husayni
  * Ghazi Jabali
  * Ahmed Jibril
  * Abu Jihad
  * Salah Khalaf
  * Leila Khaled
  * Sheikh Khalil
  * Khaled Mashal
  * Zuheir Mohsen
  * Abu Ali Mustafa
  * Abu Nidal
  * Izz ad-Din al-Qassam
  * Jibril Rajoub
  * Abdel Aziz al-Rantisi
  * Ali Hassan Salameh
  * Salah Shehade
  * Ramadan Shalah
  * Fathi Shaqaqi
  * Ahlam Tamimi
  * Ahmed Yassin

  
  
|

Timeline  
  
---  
  
| Background |

| 1920–1948 |

  * Mandatory Palestine (intercommunal conflict)
  * 1920
    * Nebi Musa riots
    * Battle of Tel Hai
  * 1921 Jaffa riots
  * 1929 Palestine riots
    * Hebron massacre
    * Safed massacre
  * 1936–39 Arab revolt
  * 1944–47 Jewish insurgency
  * 1947–48 Civil War

  
  
---|---  
  |

| 1948–1970 |

  * 1948 Arab–Israeli War
    * massacres
  * 1948–present Fedayeen insurgency
    * 1951–1967 Attacks against Israeli civilians
    * 1950s–1960s IDF reprisal operations
  * 1953 Qibya massacre
  * 1956 Kafr Qasim / Khan Yunis / Rafah massacres
  * 1967 Six-Day War
  * 1967–70 War of Attrition
    * 1968 Battle of Karameh

  
  
---|---  
  
Palestinian  
insurgency

|

| 1968–1982 |

  * 1970 Avivim school bus massacre
  * 1972 Sabena Flight 571 / Munich massacre / Operation "Wrath of God" (1973 Lillehammer affair)
  * 1974 Kiryat Shmona massacre / Ma'alot massacre
  * 1975 Savoy Hotel attack
  * 1976 Operation "Entebbe"
  * 1978 Coastal Road massacre / South Lebanon conflict
  * 1980 Misgav Am hostage crisis

  
  
---|---  
  |

| 1973–1987 |

  * 1973 Yom Kippur War
  * 1975 Zion Square bombing
  * 1982 Lebanon War
    * Siege of Beirut
  * 1984 Bus 300 affair
  * 1985  _Achille Lauro_ hijacking / Operation "Wooden Leg"
  * 1987 Night of the Gliders

  
  
---|---  
First Intifada |

| 1987–1991 |

  * 1988 Tunis Raid
  * 1989 Bus 405 attack
  * 1990 Temple Mount riots
  * 1990s Palestinian suicide attacks
  * 1994 Cave of the Patriarchs massacre

  
  
---|---  
Second Intifada |

| 2000–2005 |

  * Palestinian rocket attacks
    * list
  * Palestinian suicide attacks
  * Israeli assassinations
  * 2000 October events
  * 2001  _Santorini_
  * 2002  _Karine A_ / Operation "Defensive Shield" / Battle of Jenin / Battle of Nablus / Operation "Determined Path"
  * 2003  _Abu Hasan_ / Ain es Saheb airstrike
  * 2004 Operation "Rainbow" / Beit Hanoun raid / Operation "Days of Penitence"

  
  
---|---  
  |

| 2006–present |

  * 2006 Operation "Bringing Home the Goods"
  * 2008  _Mercaz HaRav_ / Jerusalem bulldozer attack
  * 2009 Temple Mount riots
  * 2010 Palestinian militancy campaign
  * 2015 Israeli–Palestinian conflict (2015–2016)
  * 2017 Temple Mount crisis

  
  
---|---  
  
Gaza–Israel  
conflict

|

| 2006–present |

  * 2006 Gaza beach explosion / Gaza cross-border raid / Operation "Summer Rains" / Operation "Autumn Clouds" / Beit Hanoun shelling
  * 2008 Gaza–Egypt border breach / Operation "Hot Winter"
  * 2008–09 Gaza War
  * 2010 Gaza flotilla raid
  * 2012 Operation "Returning Echo" / Operation "Pillar of Defense"
  * 2014 Operation "Protective Edge"
  * 2015 Freedom Flotilla III

  
  
---|---  
  
|

Diplomacy  
  
---  
  
| Timeline |

| 1948–1991 |

  * 1948 Palestinian exodus
    * depopulated Arab settlements
  * 1949 Lausanne Conference
  * 1967–present Israeli settlement
    * settler violence
    * international law

  
  
---|---  
1990s |

  * 1991 Madrid Conference
  * 1993/95 Oslo Accords
  * 1994 Protocol on Economic Relations (Paris Protocol)
  * 1994 Gaza–Jericho Agreement
  * 1994–present US security assistance to PNA
  * 1997 Hebron Agreement
  * 1998 Wye River Memorandum
  * 1999 Sharm el-Sheikh Memorandum

  
  
2000s |

  * 2000 Camp David Summit / Clinton Parameters
  * 2001 Taba Summit
  * 2002 Quartet established
  * 2003 Road Map
  * 2005 Israeli disengagement from Gaza
  * 2005 Agreement on Movement and Access
  * 2006 Valley of Peace initiative
  * 2007 Annapolis Conference
  * 2009  _Aftonbladet_ Israel controversy

  
  
2010s |

  * 2010–11 Israeli–Palestinian peace talks
  * 2011 Palestine Papers
  * 2013–14 Israeli–Palestinian peace talks

  
  
United Nations |

  * 1947 UN Resolution 181
  * 1948 UN Resolution 194
  * 1967 UN Resolution 242

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 142009904
  * LCCN: n88280213
  * GND: 5069914-3

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Hamas&oldid=816473085"

Categories:

  * Hamas
  * 1987 establishments in the Palestinian territories
  * Anti-Zionism in the Palestinian territories
  * Antisemitism in the Middle East
  * Far-right political parties
  * Far-right politics in Asia
  * Holocaust denial
  * Islam and antisemitism
  * Islamism in Israel
  * Islamism in the Palestinian territories
  * Islamic political parties
  * Islamic fundamentalism
  * Jihadist groups
  * Muslim Brotherhood
  * National liberation movements
  * Organizations designated as terrorist in Asia
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by Japan
  * Palestinian militant groups
  * Palestinian nationalist parties
  * Palestinian political parties
  * Palestinian terrorism
  * Political parties established in 1987
  * Resistance movements
  * Sunni Islamist groups

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating text from the Congressional Research Service
  * CS1 errors: dates
  * Pages with citations lacking titles
  * Pages with citations having bare URLs
  * CS1 Swedish-language sources (sv)
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from December 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from October 2017
  * Pages using web citations with no URL
  * Wikipedia pages under 30-500 editing restriction
  * Use mdy dates from September 2013
  * Articles containing Arabic-language text
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * All accuracy disputes
  * Articles with disputed statements from March 2017
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from June 2015
  * Articles containing Hebrew-language text
  * Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
  * Articles with Arabic-language external links
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * View source
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikinews
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Alemannisch
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Brezhoneg
  * Català
  * Чӑвашла
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Føroyskt
  * Français
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kiswahili
  * Kurdî
  * لۊری شومالی
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * مصرى
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Монгол
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * پښتو
  * Piemontèis
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Soomaaliga
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * 吴语
  * ייִדיש
  * 粵語
  * Zazaki
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 December 2017, at 15:41.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ lit.]: literal translation
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

