

# Heinz College

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy  
---  
  
Former names

| School of Urban and Public Affairs (1968-1992)  
H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management (1992-2008)  
Motto | "Educating men and women for intelligent action"[1]  
Type | Private graduate college  
Established | 1968 by Richard King Mellon  
  
Parent institution

| Carnegie Mellon University  
Dean | Ramayya Krishnan  
  
Academic staff

| 52[2]  
Postgraduates | 1,518[3]  
  
Doctoral students

| 48[2]  
Location | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, United States  
Campus | National Historic Landmark, Urban  
Website | www.heinz.cmu.edu  
  
The **H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy** (
**Heinz College** or **HC** ) at Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States is a private graduate college that consists of one
of the nation's top-ranked public policy schools—the Network of Schools of
Public Policy, Affairs, and Administration-accredited School of Public Policy
& Management—and information schools—the School of Information Systems &
Management. It is named for the late United States Senator H. John Heinz III
(1938-1991) from Pennsylvania. The Heinz College is also a member of the
Institute for Information Infrastructure Protection, one of 24 members of the
iCaucus leadership of iSchools,[4] and a founding member and the host
institution of the MetroLab Network, a national smart city initiative.[5]

The Heinz College educational process integrates policy analysis, management,
and information technology. Coursework emphasizes the applied and
interdisciplinary fields of empirical methods and statistics, economics,
information systems and technology, operations research, and organizational
behavior. In addition to full-time, on campus programs in Pittsburgh,
Washington, DC, Los Angeles, and Adelaide, the Heinz College offers graduate-
level programs to non-traditional students through part-time on-campus and
distance programs, customized programs, and executive education programs for
senior managers.

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Facilities
  * 3 Rankings
  * 4 Education
  * 5 Research
  * 6 Notable associated people
  * 7 See also
  * 8 References
  * 9 External links

## History[edit]

H. John Heinz III, namesake of the Heinz College

Richard King Mellon and his wife Constance had long been interested in urban
and social issues. In 1965, they sponsored a conference on urban problems, in
which they began discussions with the University of Pittsburgh and Carnegie
Mellon University to create a school focused on public affairs. In 1967,
Carnegie Mellon President H. Guyford Stever, Richard M. Cyert, Dean of the
Tepper School of Business, and Professors William W. Cooper and Otto Davis met
and formed a university-wide committee to discuss creating a school that would
train leaders to address complex problems in American urban communities. Davis
was asked to draft a proposal to create such a school and focused on applying
the Tepper School of Business' pioneering quantitative and skill-based
approach to management education as well as technology to public sector
problems.

In 1968, William Cooper and Otto Davis presented the final proposal for the
School of Urban and Public Affairs (SUPA) to the Richard King Mellon
Foundation. The proposal found favor with R. K. Mellon and he became strongly
committed to creating such a school. The R. K. Mellon Foundation sent a
proposal to President Stever to finance it with an initial grant of $10
million, and on 1 November 1968, President Stever created the School of Urban
and Public Affairs with William Cooper as the first Dean. The school initially
drew much of its faculty from the Tepper School of Business and was based in
the Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall. Eventually, the school became independent
of other colleges within the university and moved to its current location in
historic Hamburg Hall when the facility was acquired by the university from
the U.S. Bureau of Mines. Subsequent Deans include Otto Davis, Brian Berry,
Joel A. Tarr, Alfred Blumstein, former Carnegie Mellon Provost Mark Kamlet,
Linda C. Babcock, Jeffrey Hunker, Mark Wessel, and current Dean Ramayya
Krishnan.

In 1992, Teresa Heinz donated a large sum of money to the school, which was
then renamed as the H. John Heinz III School of Public Policy and Management
in honor of Mrs. Heinz's late husband, Senator H. John Heinz III. Senator
Heinz, heir to the H. J. Heinz Company fortune, had been killed when his small
private plane crashed one year before.[6]

In 2007, the Heinz School received a grant from the Heinz Foundations that
transformed the school into a college and formalized the School of Information
Systems & Management alongside the School of Public Policy & Management under
the college's administration. The official launch of the H. John Heinz III
College of Information Systems and Public Policy was held on October 24, 2008
during Carnegie Mellon's Homecoming weekend and was led by Dean Krishnan,
Teresa Heinz, and former United States Secretary of the Treasury Paul
O'Neill.[7]

## Facilities[edit]

Hamburg Hall, home of the Heinz College

Heinz College is headquartered in Hamburg Hall, a building listed on the
National Register of Historic Places and designed by noted Beaux-Arts
architect Henry Hornbostel. Hamburg Hall is named for Lester A. Hamburg, an
industrialist and philanthropist active in the Pittsburgh Jewish Community.[8]
The Heinz College also has a branch campus in Adelaide, South Australia, which
offers master's degrees in Public Policy and Management and Information
Technology. Heinz College also maintains a North Hollywood center in Los
Angeles as part of the jointly administered master's degree program in
Entertainment Industry Management, and a center in Washington, DC on Capitol
Hill for students in the Public Policy and Management masters program.

Carnegie Mellon is in the process of renovating and expanding the Heinz
College's Pittsburgh facilities through a four-phased process across Forbes
Avenue from the 2013-announced Tepper Quadrangle. The ultimate plan for
Hamburg Hall is to capture new space – approximately 20,000 square feet – by
enclosing the courtyard between the rotunda, the East and West Wings, and the
adjacent Elliott Dunlap Smith Hall with a soaring glass roof structure. This
new space will include a large, multi‐purpose Classroom of the Future,
lounges, meeting/study space, and a café. Phase I of renovations and expansion
of Hamburg Hall was entirely financed by Heinz College and was completed in
September 2013. Heinz College students immediately benefited from convenient
access to the new student services and computing services suites. The
construction of new career services interview rooms provides up‐to‐date
facilities for on‐campus recruiters.[9]

A December 2013 gift from The Heinz Endowments combined with gift commitments
from other donors enabled the Heinz College to expedite the final
architectural design of Phase II elements, finalize necessary construction
planning, commence renovations and expansion, and complete a structure that
will add additional value to the college. A new 150-seat auditorium in the
courtyard between Hamburg Hall and Smith Hall was constructed, and both levels
of the rotunda were transformed into student study and lounge spaces as well
as a grand entrance and lobby area, and renamed as the Teresa Heinz Rotunda.
The new auditorium allows the college to host high-profile speakers. Further,
the west wing of Hamburg Hall now consists of forward-looking classrooms in
the space that was vacated by the Engineering Research Accelerator when it
moved to the newly constructed Scott Hall. An additional entrance from Forbes
Avenue was also constructed.[3][10][11][12]

During Phase III the addition to Hamburg Hall, including a glass roof, end
walls, café, and study space, will be constructed. Fire protection and
elevator improvements will also be addressed as well as the addition of new
classrooms (including designated executive education rooms). The addition of
20,000 square feet to Hamburg Hall will allow the Heinz College to continue to
grow student enrollment. This phase is planned for completion by 2017.

The final phase, Phase IV, will renovate third-floor faculty and PhD offices
and meeting spaces.[11]

The new additions and renovations will be designed to achieve LEED Silver
certification.[13][14]

## Rankings[edit]

In the 2016 _U.S. News& World Report_ Graduate School rankings, the Heinz
College was ranked 13th amongst schools of public affairs. Aside from the 2016
ranking, the Heinz College has ranked in the top 10 since _U.S. News & World
Report_ began ranking schools of public affairs in 1995. Of the 272 schools of
public affairs across the nation that were surveyed in 2016, Heinz College
ranked:[15]

  * 1st in Information and Technology Management;
  * 8th in Public Policy Analysis (MPP Programs);
  * 9th in Environmental Policy and Management;
  * 28th in Nonprofit Management.

Heinz College also ranked 2nd in the Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index
listing for the top performing programs in public administration and 9th in
the listing for the top performing programs in public policy.[16]

The PhD program in Public Policy and Management at the Heinz College was
ranked in the top 5 overall and in the top 3 in faculty research activity by
the National Research Council in 2010.[17]

The Medical Management program was ranked 4th by Modern Healthcare Magazine in
the 2009 rankings of the top management graduate schools for physician
executives.[18]

InformationWeek named the Heinz College's Master in Information Systems
Management with Business Intelligence & Data Analytics concentration as one of
the top 20 in big data analytics.[19]

The Heinz College was awarded the 2016 UPS George D. Smith Prize by the
Institute for Operations Research and the Management Sciences (INFORMS). The
Smith Prize recognizes the best academic departments and schools in analytics,
management science, and operations research.[20]

## Education[edit]

The Heinz College has an international reputation for excellence in its
educational programs:

**School of Public Policy & Management**

  * Master of Science in Public Policy & Management (Full-time) 
    * Public Policy & Data Analytics Track
    * Program options in Pittsburgh, Washington, and Adelaide
  * Master of Science in Health Care Policy & Management (Full-time)
  * Master of Public Management (Part-time)
  * Master of Medical Management (Part-time)

|  |  |  |

**School of Information Systems & Management**

  * Master of Information System Management (Full-time) 
    * Business Intelligence & Data Analytics Track
    * Program options in Pittsburgh and Adelaide
  * Master of Science in Information Security Policy & Management (Full-time)
  * Master of Science in Information Technology (Part-time) 
    * Program options in Pittsburgh and Adelaide

**College of Fine Arts Joint Degree Programs**

  * Master of Arts Management (Full-time)
  * Master of Entertainment Industry Management (Full-time) 
    * Program administered jointly in Pittsburgh and Los Angeles

  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
**Dual Degrees**

  * Master of Science in Public Policy & Management/Juris Doctor with the University of Pittsburgh School of Law
  * Master of Science in Public Policy & Management/Master of Business Administration with the Tepper School of Business
  * Master of Science in Public Policy & Management/Master of Divinity with the Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Master of Science in Public Policy & Management/Master of Science in Nature, Policy and the Environment with the University of Oxford
  * Master of Arts Management/Juris Doctor with the University of Pittsburgh School of Law
  * Master of Arts Management/Graduate Degree in Innovation and Organization of Culture and the Arts with the University of Bologna
  * Master of Health Care Policy & Management/Master of Business Administration with the Tepper School of Business
  * Master of Science in Information Technology/Master in Information Technology Administration with Monterrey Institute of Technology and Higher Education

|  |  |  |

**PhD programs:**

  * Public Policy & Management
  * Information Systems & Management
  * Economics & Public Policy (jointly with the Tepper School of Business)
  * Statistics and Public Policy (jointly with Department of Statistics and Data Science)
  * Strategy, Entrepreneurship, & Technological Change (jointly with the Departments of Social and Decision Sciences, Engineering and Public Policy, and Tepper School of Business)
  * Technological Change & Entrepreneurship (Carnegie Mellon Portugal program)
  * Machine Learning & Public Policy (jointly with the Machine Learning Department)

  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
While Heinz College is the only college at Carnegie Mellon that does not have
undergraduate degree programs, it does offer accelerated masters programs for
exceptional undergraduates. The Heinz College participates in the minor in
Health Care Policy & Management jointly with the Dietrich College of
Humanities and Social Sciences and the Mellon College of Science. Additionally
Heinz College offers several executive education programs such as the CIO
Institute in Arlington, Virginia (which offers CIO and CISO certificate
programs), a joint data analytics certificate program with UPMC, a Chief Risk
Officer certificate program jointly with the Software Engineering Institute,
and the Carnegie Mellon Leadership and Negotiation Academy for Women. The
Heinz College is also one of four national hosts of the Junior Summer
Institutes of the Public Policy and International Affairs Program and runs the
IT Lab Junior Summer Institute. The Heinz College is a partner in the Tepper
School of Business' Master of Science in Computational Finance program, the
College of Engineering's Master of Science in Engineering and Technology
Innovation Management program, and the School of Architecture's Master of
Urban Design program.

The hallmark of every Heinz College education is the quantitative and skills-
based curriculum, the integration of technology, and the required capstone
final project. This final project is done instead of a traditional thesis and
allows the students to apply their problem solving skills to a real-world
client's problem. Graduates of Heinz College are successful in the public
sector, private sector, and nonprofit sector.

## Research[edit]

Heinz College maintains an international reputation of excellence in the
fields of social entrepreneurship, crime and drug policy, health policy and
IT, art and entertainment industry management, digital media, information
systems and economics, management science, data analytics, policy analysis,
organizational behavior, information security and privacy, and social welfare
policy. The Heinz College also regularly collaborates with the nearby
Pittsburgh office of the RAND Corporation for research and educational
programs. The Heinz College is also affiliated the following institutes,
centers, programs, labs, and initiatives:

  * Arts Management and Technology Laboratory
  * Center for Behavioral Decision Research
  * Center for the Future of Work
  * CyLab Security and Privacy Institute
  * Event and Pattern Detection Laboratory
  * iLab
  * Initiative for Digital Entertainment Analytics
  * Living Analytics Research Centre (jointly with Singapore Management University)
  * Metro21
  * The Privacy Economics Experiments Lab
  * Program for Research and Outreach on Gender Equity in Society
  * Risk and Regulatory Services Innovation Center (sponsored by PwC)
  * Traffic21 Institute

The Heinz College offers several experiential learning centers:

  * Center for Economic Development
  * Future Tenant
  * Institute for Social Innovation

The Heinz College is also affiliated with the following research journals:

  * _The Heinz Journal_
  * _I/S: A Journal of Law and Policy for the Information Society_ (jointly with the Moritz College of Law at The Ohio State University)

##  Notable associated people[edit]

  * Ashish Arora - economist and expert in technology, innovation, development, and public policy
  * Alessandro Acquisti - Carnegie Corporation of New York Andrew Carnegie Fellow and expert in behavioral economics and economics of privacy
  * Linda C. Babcock - author, economist, former Dean of the Heinz College, expert in negotiation and gender, and department head of the Department of Social and Decision Sciences
  * Nilofar Bakhtiar \- Pakistani Senator and former Federal Minister for Tourism
  * Allen Biehler \- former Secretary of the Pennsylvania Department of Transportation
  * Alfred Blumstein \- one of the world's top criminologists and operations researchers, winner of the 2007 Stockholm Prize in Criminology, member of the National Academy of Engineering, INFORMS Fellow and past president, director of the National Consortium on Violence Research
  * Keith G. Block - President and Vice Chairman of Salesforce.com and previously Executive Vice President of North America Sales and Consulting at Oracle Corporation
  * Nik Bonaddio \- founder of numberFire
  * Lee Branstetter - international economics expert and member of President Obama's Council of Economic Advisors
  * Terry F. Buss - director of Heinz College Australia and Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration
  * Kathleen Carley \- computational sociologist and expert in dynamic network analysis
  * Jonathan P. Caulkins - operations researcher, expert in drug and crime policy, and founder of RAND Pittsburgh, INFORMS Fellow, and member of the National Academy of Engineering
  * Jack Chow \- Public health expert, first Assistant Director-General of the World Health Organization on HIV/AIDS, Tuberculosis, and Malaria, Special Representative of the U.S. Secretary of State on Global HIV/AIDS and Deputy Assistant Secretary of State for Health and Science
  * William W. Cooper \- founding Dean of Heinz College and pioneer in management science and accounting, INFORMS Fellow and past president, John von Neumann Theory Prize winner, and member of the Accounting Hall of Fame
  * John Patrick Crecine \- former President of the Georgia Institute of Technology, former Dean of the Gerald R. Ford School of Public Policy, former Dean of the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * Carmen Yulín Cruz \- current mayor of San Juan, Puerto Rico
  * David Dausey \- public health expert and consultant for the RAND Corporation
  * Otto Davis - co-founder of Heinz College, economist, and public-choice theorist
  * Jon Delano \- Money & Politics editor at KDKA-TV
  * George T. Duncan - expert on statistical confidentiality
  * Thomas J. Elzey - President of South Carolina State University
  * David Farber \- co-creator of ARPANET and former Chief Technologist for the Federal Communications Commission (FCC)
  * Stephen Fienberg \- one of the top statisticians in the world, recipient of the COPSS Presidents' Award, elected member of the National Academy of Sciences, elected fellow of the Royal Society of Canada, elected fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science, fellow of the American Statistical Association, winner of the Wilks Award, fellow of the Institute of Mathematical Statistics, former dean of the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * Richard Florida \- social economist, urban scientist, and creator of the Creative class concept
  * Gary J. Gates - expert in demographics and geography of lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender populations and research director at the Williams Institute on Sexual Orientation and Gender Identity Law and Public Policy at UCLA School of Law
  * Martin Gaynor - health economist, former chairman of the Health Care Cost Institute, and former Director of the Federal Trade Commission Bureau of Economics
  * John Graham \- Dean of the Indiana University School of Public and Environmental Affairs, former Dean of the Frederick S. Pardee RAND Graduate School, and former Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs
  * Jendayi Frazer \- US Assistant Secretary of State for African Affairs in the George W. Bush administration
  * Joseph Hezir - Chief Financial Officer of the United States Department of Energy
  * Melvin J. Hinich \- expert in signal processing and statistics
  * Jeffrey Hunker \- expert in information security policy, advisor in the United States Department of Commerce, founding director of the Critical Infrastructure Assurance Office, Senior Director for Critical Infrastructure on the National Security Council
  * Farnam Jahanian - Provost and interim president of Carnegie Mellon University and former Director of the National Science Foundation Directorate for Computer and Information Science and Engineering
  * Norman J. Johnson - former President of the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration and Fellow of the National Academy of Public Administration
  * James F. Jordan - expert in Biotechnology and Healthcare, former Senior Vice-President of McKesson Corporation, Vice President of Johnson & Johnson
  * Sydney Kamlager \- District Director for California State Senator Holly Mitchell and Trustee-Elect for the Los Angeles Community College District
  * Mark Kamlet - economist and former Provost of Carnegie Mellon University
  * David Krackhardt \- expert in organizational behavior and social network analysis
  * Ramayya Krishnan \- Dean and expert in management science and information technology, strategy, and policy, INFORMS Fellow and President-elect
  * Yeh Kuang-shih \- Minister of Transportation and Communication of Taiwan
  * Patrick D. Larkey - policy analysis expert and former Department Head of the Department of Social and Decision Sciences
  * Charles F. Manski, Economist and econometrician in the realm of rational choice theory, an innovator known for his work on partial identification.
  * Dan J. Martin \- Dean of the Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts
  * J. Kevin McMahon \- President and CEO of the Pittsburgh Cultural Trust
  * David H. McCormick \- former Under Secretary for International Affairs within the US Department of the Treasury
  * M. Granger Morgan - expert in environmental policy analysis, head of the Department of Engineering and Public Policy
  * Daniel S. Nagin \- criminologist, winner of the 2014 Stockholm Prize in Criminology, and fellow of the American Academy of Political and Social Science
  * Jairam Ramesh \- elected member of the Indian Parliament and the Cabinet Minister for Rural Development
  * David Radzanowski - Chief Financial Officer of NASA
  * Mark Roosevelt \- President of Antioch College, Democratic candidate for Governor of Massachusetts, superintendent of the Pittsburgh Public Schools, and member of the Roosevelt family
  * Denise M. Rousseau \- expert in organizational behavior and the psychological contract
  * Joel M. Rubin - Deputy Assistant Secretary for House Affairs in the United States Department of State and candidate for Congressman in Maryland's 8th congressional district
  * Natalia Rudiak - Member of the Pittsburgh City Council
  * Joe Sestak \- United States Congressman from Pennsylvania from 2007 to 2011, former United States Navy Vice Admiral
  * Peter M. Shane \- Professor of Law and Public Policy specializing in administrative law and e-democracy, former Dean of the University of Pittsburgh School of Law
  * Kiron Skinner \- expert and author in international relations, Cold War policy, and fellow at the Hoover Institution
  * Luke Skurman \- founder of Niche
  * Michael D. Smith \- economist in information technology and pioneer in The Long Tail phenomenon
  * Robert P. Strauss \- economist and expert in public finance and tax policy
  * Subra Suresh \- Former president of Carnegie Mellon University and former Director of the National Science Foundation
  * John Tarnoff \- studio executive, film and interactive producer, and technology entrepreneur and former Head of Show Development at DreamWorks Animation
  * Joel A. Tarr - urban, industrial, environmental, and technological historian and former dean of the Heinz College and the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * Lowell J. Taylor - economist and demographer, senior fellow at the National Opinion Research Center, and member of President Clinton's Council of Economic Advisors
  * Paula Wagner \- film executive and talent agent, former CEO at United Artists and Cruise/Wagner Productions
  * Robert Wilburn \- former president of the Carnegie Museums of Pittsburgh, Indiana University of Pennsylvania, and director of Heinz College in Washington, DC

## See also[edit]

  * Heinz College Australia, Heinz College's branch campus in Adelaide, South Australia

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Welcome to Heinz College". _Heinz College_. Retrieved  22 February 2013. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Carnegie Mellon Quick Facts" (PDF). _CMU Website_. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 February 2014. Retrieved 11 February 2014. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Heinz Endowments Gift". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  12 December 2013. 
  4. **^** "iCaucus Members". _iSchools_. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  5. **^** "MetroLab Network". Retrieved  15 September 2015. 
  6. **^** "History". _Heinz College_. Retrieved  24 December 2013. 
  7. **^** "Oct. 24: Carnegie Mellon Dedicates New H. John Heinz III College". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  24 December 2013. 
  8. **^** " "Pittsburgh and Beyond: The Experience of the Jewish Community". _NCJW Oral History Project_. Retrieved  16 October 2015. 
  9. **^** " "CMU receives $10M to renovate, expand Heinz College". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  12 December 2013. 
  10. **^** "12/03/2014 Town Hall Meeting" (PDF). _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  14 February 2015. 
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Necessary Investment". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  25 November 2014. 
  12. **^** "Heinz College - Hamburg Hall Addition". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Retrieved  2 March 2016. 
  13. **^** Schackner, Bill (3 March 2011). "CMU airs 10-year master plan". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  29 December 2012. 
  14. **^** "GBBN Architects: Carnegie Mellon University/Heinz College addition". _web site_. Retrieved  22 April 2013. 
  15. **^** "Carnegie Mellon University Best Public Affairs Schools U.S. News". _US News and World Report_. Retrieved  26 May 2016. 
  16. **^** "The Chronicle: Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index". _The Chronicle of Higher Education_. Retrieved  24 December 2013. 
  17. **^** "National Research Council Ranks Ph.D. Program at Carnegie Mellon University's Heinz College Among Nation's Elite". _Heinz College_. Retrieved  22 September 2013. 
  18. **^** "MMM Curriculum". _Heinz College_. Retrieved  24 December 2013. 
  19. **^** "Big Data Analytics Masters Degrees: 20 Top Programs". _InformationWeek_. Retrieved  6 February 2013. 
  20. **^** "CMU's Heinz College Named Top Analytics Program by INFORMS". _Heinz College_. Retrieved  26 May 2016. 

  * Fenton, Edwin (2000). _Carnegie Mellon 1900-2000: A Centennial History_. Pittsburgh: Carnegie Mellon University Press. ISBN 0-88748-323-2.  

## External links[edit]

  * Official website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * History
    * Timeline
  * Culture
  * Dialect
  * Media
  * Neighborhoods
  * Notable people
  * Skyscrapers

  
  
|

Government  
  
---  
  
  * Airport
  * Conventions
  * City Hall
  * Courthouse
  * Mayor
  * Council
  * Events
  * InterGov
  * Police
  * D.A.
  * Sheriff
  * Fire
  * Libraries
  * Transit
  * Education
  * Port
  * Regional

  
  
|

Economy  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Conference
  * Duquesne Club
  * Chamber of Commerce
  * Economic Club
  * HYP Club
  * Stock Exchange

  
  
---  
  
| Fortune 500 headquarters |

  * U.S. Steel
  * PNC Financial Services
  * PPG Industries
  * Kraft Heinz
  * Mylan
  * WESCO International
  * Consol Energy
  * Dick's Sporting Goods
  * Allegheny Technologies

  
  
---|---  
Forbes largest private  
companies headquarters |

  * 84 Lumber
  * Giant Eagle

  
  
Other corporation headquarters |

  * American Bridge
  * American Eagle Outfitters
  * Ampco Pittsburgh
  * ANSYS
  * Armstrong Communications
  * Atlas America
  * Black Box
  * Bruster's Ice Cream
  * Calgon Carbon
  * Compunetix
  * Dollar Bank
  * DQE Energy
  * Eat'n Park
  * EDMC
  * EQT Energy
  * Federated Investors
  * GNC
  * Guru.com
  * Highmark
  * H. Laughlin China
  * iGate
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Kennametal
  * Koppers
  * MARC USA
  * Millcraft Industries
  * Mine Safety Appliances
  * Niche.com
  * Oxford Development
  * PTC Alliance
  * Renda Broadcasting
  * rue21
  * University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
  * Vocelli Pizza
  * Wabtec

  
  
Companies with split headquarters |

  * Alcoa
  * ModCloth
  * NOVA Chemicals

  
  
Subsidiary company headquarters |

  * Allegheny Energy
  * Bayer Corporation
  * FedEx Ground
  * GlaxoSmithKline USA
  * LANXESS
  * Respironics
  * Vivisimo
  * Westinghouse Electric Company

  
  
Outside companies with  
strong Pittsburgh relations |

  * BNY Mellon (formerly Mellon Financial)
  * Dreyfus Corporation
  * Eaton Corporation
  * Spreadshirt
  * Macy's

  
  
Historic |

  * Fisher's Big Wheel
  * Clark Bar
  * Dravo
  * Fisher Scientific
  * Integra Bank
  * Mesta Machinery
  * G. C. Murphy
  * Gulf Oil
  * J&L Steel
  * Ketchum
  * Rockwell
  * Sunbeam
  * Westinghouse

  
  
List of corporations in Pittsburgh  
  
|

Sports  
  
---  
  
|

  * Dapper Dan
  * Grand Prix
  * Great Race
  * Head of the Ohio
  * Lore
  * Marathon
  * Mylan Classic
  * Regatta
  * WPHL

  
  
---  
Baseball |

  * Pirates
  * Wild Things
  * Panthers
  * Dukes

    _Chronicle-Telegraph Cup_
    Allegheny
    Burghers
    Champions
    Crawfords
    Filipinos
    Grays
    Hardhats
    Keystones
    Stogies
    Rebels  
  
Basketball |

  * Yellow Jackets
  * Panthers (m)
  * Panthers (w)
  * Dukes (m)
  * Dukes (w)
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)

    Roundball Classic
    Condors
    Ironmen
    Loendi
    Monticello
    Phantoms
    Pipers
    Piranhas
    Pirates
    Rens
    Xplosion  
  
Football |

  * Steelers
  * Panthers
  * Steeler Nation
  * heritage
  * Colts
  * Force
  * Passion
  * Renegades

    1898 All-Stars
    Allegheny
    Americans
    A's
    Duquesne
    Gladiators
    Homestead
    Lyceum
    Maulers
    Power
    Odds
    Olympics
    Quakers
    JP
    Stars
    Early Pro Football Circuit  
  
Hockey |

  * Penguins
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)
  * Three Rivers Classic

    A's
    Bankers
    Cougars
    Duquesne
    Ft. Pitt
    Hornets
    Keystones
    Lyceum
    Panthers
    Phantoms
    Pirates
    Pirates (WPHL)
    Pros
    Shamrocks
    Victorias
    Winter Garden
    Yellow Jackets  
  
Soccer |

  * Riverhounds

    Beadling
    Cannons
    Hurricanes
    Phantoms
    Spirit  
  
Other |

    Sledgehammers
    Bulls
    Harlequins
    PCC
    Triangles
    Wallabies
    Studio Wrestling
    Dirty Dozen  
  
Venues |

  * PPG Paints Arena
  * Heinz Field
  * PNC Park
  * 84 Lumber Arena
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Highmark Stadium
  * Palumbo Center
  * Petersen Events Center
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Rooney Field
  * Sewall Center
  * Trees Hall

    Central Park
    Civic Arena
    Duquesne Gardens
    Exposition Park
    Forbes Field
    Josh Gibson Field
    Greenlee Field
    Motor Square Garden
    Pitt Stadium
    Recreation Park
    Schenley Gardens
    Three Rivers
    Winter Garden  
  
|

Parks  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Arsenal
  * Allegheny Commons
  * Allegheny Riverfront
  * ArtGardens
  * Buhl Community
  * Chatham University Arboretum
  * Frank Curto
  * **Frick**
  * **Emerald View**
  * **Highland**
  * Market Square
  * Mellon
  * Mellon Green
  * Mellon Square
  * North Shore Riverfront
  * Phillips
  * Point of View
  * Point State
  * PPG Place
  * **Riverview**
  * Roberto Clemente Memorial
  * Rodef Shalom Biblical Botanical Garden
  * **Schenley**
  * Schenley Plaza
  * South Shore Riverfront
  * South Side
  * **Three Rivers**
  * West End Overlook
  * Westinghouse

  
  
---  
  
|

Transportation  
  
---  
  
|

  * Inclines
  * Steps

  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Port Authority of Allegheny County  
  
---  
Light rail  
(List of stations) |

  *      Blue Line – Library
  *      Blue Line – South Hills Village
  *      Red Line – Castle Shannon
  *      Red Line – South Hills Village

|  
  
Inclines  
(Historical list) |

  * Duquesne Incline
  * Monongahela Incline

  
  
Buses and busways  
(List of routes) |

  *      Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway
  *      South Busway
  *      West Busway

  
  
Former lines |

  * 47 Drake
  * Brown Line
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
Other |

  * North Shore Connector
  * Port Authority 4000 Series PCC
  * Wabash Tunnel

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Public transportation in Greater Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Bus services |

  * **Port Authority of Allegheny County**
    * list of bus routes
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Fayette
  * IndiGO
  * Mid Mon Valley
  * Mountain Line
  * New Castle
  * Town & Country
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Washington
  * Westmoreland

  
  
Bus rapid transit |

  * MLK Jr. East Busway
  * South Busway
  * West Busway

  
  
Light rail |

  * Red Line
  * Blue Line 
    * Library
    * South Hills Village

  
  
Inclines |

  * Duquesne
  * Monongahela

  
  
Amtrak |

  * _Capitol Limited_
  * _Pennsylvanian_

  
  
Airports |

  * **Pittsburgh International**
  * **Arnold Palmer**
  * Allegheny County
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Eddie Dew
  * Greensburg Jeannette
  * Herron
  * Jefferson
  * Jimmy Stewart
  * Joe Hardy
  * Lakehill
  * Monroeville
  * New Castle
  * Rock
  * Rostraver
  * Washington
  * Wheeling
  * Zelienople

  
  
Discontinued |

  * _Broadway Limited_
  * Brown Line
  * List of streetcar routes in Pittsburgh
  * _Parkway Limited_
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Tunnels and bridges in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Tunnels |

  * Allegheny River Tunnel
  * Armstrong Tunnel
  * Cork Run Tunnel
  * Corliss Tunnel
  * Fort Pitt Tunnel
  * J&L Tunnel
  * Liberty Tunnel
  * Mount Washington Transit Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh and Castle Shannon Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh & Steubenville Extension Railroad Tunnel
  * Schenley Tunnel
  * Squirrel Hill Tunnel
  * Wabash Tunnel

|  
  
Bridges |

  * 30th Street Bridge
  * 31st Street Bridge
  * 33rd Street Railroad Bridge
  * 40th Street Bridge
  * Bloomfield Bridge
  * Birmingham Bridge
  * David McCullough Bridge
  * Fort Duquesne Bridge
  * Fort Pitt Bridge
  * Fort Wayne Railroad Bridge
  * Glenwood Bridge
  * Glenwood B&O Railroad Bridge
  * Highland Park Bridge
  * Homestead Grays Bridge
  * Hot Metal Bridge
  * Liberty Bridge
  * McKees Rocks Bridge
  * Panhandle Bridge
  * Panther Hollow Bridge
  * Schenley Bridge
  * Senator Robert D. Fleming Bridge
  * Smithfield Street Bridge
  * South Tenth Street Bridge
  * Three Sisters
    * Roberto Clemente Bridge
    * Andy Warhol Bridge
    * Rachel Carson Bridge
  * Veterans Bridge
  * West End Bridge

  
  
|

Attractions  
  
---  
  
|

  * Aviary
  * Baywood
  * Cathedral of Learning
  * Chinatown
  * Conservatory
  * _Dippy_
  * Immaculate Heart
  * Duquesne Incline
  * Heinz Chapel
  * Little Italy
  * Mellon Institute
  * Mon Incline
  * Observatory
  * Pamela's
  * Penn Station
  * _Point of View_ sculpture
  * Primanti's
  * Science Center
  * Steps
  * USS _Requin_
  * Zoo
  * Kennywood
  * Luna Park
  * Westinghouse Sign

  
  
---  
Landmarks |

  * National (City)
  * National (County)
  * State
  * City
  * PHLF
  * Cultural

  
  
Museums |

  * Art
  * Arts
  * Arts Festival
  * Bible
  * Fort Pitt and Blockhouse
  * Clayton
  * Clemente
  * Children's
  * Frick
  * Glass Center
  * History
  * Jazz
  * Jewish
  * Mattress Factory
  * Dental
  * Miller
  * Miss Pittsburgh
  * Nationality Rooms
  * National Map
  * Natural History
  * Soldiers and Sailors
  * Warhol
  * Wilson
  * WSG

  
  
Venues |

  * Heinz Hall
  * Benedum
  * Byham
  * Harris
  * Kelly-Strayhorn
  * New Hazlett
  * O'Reilly
  * Foster
  * Playhouse
  * Trib
  * Hunt
  * Stage AE
  * Syria Mosque
  * Nixon Theater

  
  
Festivals |

  * Anthrocon
  * Arts
  * Blues
  * Comicon
  * Fashion
  * Film
  * Folk
  * Handmade
  * New Works
  * Tekko
  * Whiskey & Fine Spirits
  * Wine

  
  
|

Shopping and entertainment  
  
---  
  
  * Casino
  * Gateway Clipper Fleet
  * Station Square
  * Strip
  * Downtown
  * Oakland
  * South Side

  * Macy's
  * Market Square
  * Southside Works
  * Waterworks
  * Mount Washington
  * East Liberty
  * Squirrel Hill
  * Shadyside
  * Walnut Street

  * Opera
  * Ballet
  * Symphony
  * Brass
  * Classical Theatre
  * Dance
  * Ensemble
  * Caravan Theatre
  * Folk
  * Light Opera
  * Opera Theater
  * Jewish Theatre
  * Public Theater
  * Playwrights
  * Musical Theater
  * Stage Right
  * Youth Ballet
  * Youth Symphony
  * Bricolage
  * NNOC

|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Shopping malls in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Enclosed |

  * Beaver Valley Mall
  * The Block Northway
  * Century III Mall
  * The Galleria of Mt. Lebanon
  * The Mall at Robinson
  * Monroeville Mall
  * Pittsburgh Mills
  * Ross Park Mall
  * South Hills Village
  * Station Square
  * Uniontown Mall
  * Warner Centre
  * Washington Crown Center
  * Westmoreland Mall

  
  
Lifestyle /  
Outdoor |

  * Bakery Square
  * Edgewood Towne Centre
  * Ellsworth Avenue
  * McCandless Crossing
  * Northern Lights
  * Robinson Town Centre
  * Settlers Ridge
  * SouthSide Works
  * Walnut Street
  * The Waterfront
  * Waterworks Mall

  
  
Outlet |

  * Grove City Premium Outlets
  * Tanger Outlets Pittsburgh

  
  
Defunct |

  * Allegheny Center Mall
  * East Hills Shopping Center (Eastgate Commerce Center)
  * Eastland Mall
  * Greengate Mall
  * Parkway Center Mall
  * Village Square Mall
  * Washington Mall

  
  
|

Colleges and universities  
  
---  
  
  * Pitt
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Duquesne
  * Robert Morris
  * Chatham
  * Point Park
  * Carlow
  * Art Institute
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Saint Paul Seminary
  * CCAC

  
  
|

Culture of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * Cookie table
  * Jewish history
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Jagoff
  * Joe Magarac
  * _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_
  * Mr. Yuk
  * Parking chairs
  * Pittsburgh left
  * Pittsburgh toilet
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * Steeler Nation

  
  
  * **Book**
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**

  
  
Coordinates:  40°26′37″N 79°56′30″W﻿ / ﻿40.443504°N 79.941571°W﻿ / 40.443504;
-79.941571

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Heinz_College&oldid=814428216"

Categories:

  * Schools and departments of Carnegie Mellon
  * Educational institutions established in 1968
  * Public administration schools in the United States
  * Public policy schools
  * Information schools
  * 1968 establishments in Pennsylvania

Hidden categories:

  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * 日本語

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 8 December 2017, at 19:48.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

