

# Henry Hillman

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Henry Hillman  
---  
  
Hillman Hall of Minerals and Gems at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History,
Pittsburgh.  
  
Born | Henry Lea Hillman  
(1918-12-25)December 25, 1918  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.  
Died | April 14, 2017(2017-04-14) (aged 98)  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.  
Education | Shady Side Academy  
Taft School  
Alma mater | Princeton University  
Occupation | Investor  
Net worth | $2.6 billion (April 2017)[1]  
Spouse(s) | Elsie Hilliard Hillman (m. 1945; her death 2015)  
Children | 4  
Parent(s) | J. Hartwell Hillman, Jr.  
  
**Henry Lea Hillman** (December 25, 1918  – April 14, 2017) was an American
billionaire businessman, investor, civic leader, and philanthropist. He was
chairman of The Hillman Company,[2] a family office and investment company
headquartered in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, and owned by the Hillman family.[3]
He chaired the board of trustees of Hillman Family Foundations.[4] which
manages 18 named foundations.

## Contents

  * 1 Early life
  * 2 Business career
  * 3 Philanthropy
  * 4 Personal life
  * 5 References
  * 6 External links

## Early life[edit]

Henry Lea Hillman was born and raised in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. He was the
fifth child and second son of John Hartwell Hillman, Jr. (1880–1959) and
Juliet Cummins Hillman (née Lea; 1885–1940).[5] His father built upon his own
father’s small iron brokerage firm to create a diversified industrial
operation with holdings in coal and coke, steel and utilities, energy,
transportation, real estate, and banking.[6]

Hillman attended Shady Side Academy in Pittsburgh, the Taft School in
Watertown, Connecticut, and Princeton University,[7] where he earned an A.B.
degree in geology in 1941.[8] He enlisted in the Navy before the United States
entered World War II[9] in December 1941 and served first as an aide to Rear
Admiral Randall Jacobs, chief of the Bureau of Naval Personnel. He became a
Naval aviator in 1942, holding the rank of lieutenant and serving until after
the war’s end in 1945.[8]

## Business career[edit]

In January 1946, Hillman joined Pittsburgh Coke & Chemical, which produced and
sold coke, merchant pig iron, and such coal-derived byproducts as activated
carbon.[1] J. H. Hillman & Sons (later renamed The Hillman Company) was the
majority shareholder of this publicly traded firm. As vice president and a
director, Henry expanded the company’s manufacture and sale of finished
chemicals and plasticizers. He became president of Pittsburgh Coke in
1955.[10]

As a director of Pittsburgh’s Colonial Trust Company, he worked with his
father in 1959 to negotiate the consolidation of smaller banks and trust
companies into Pittsburgh National Bank, ancestor of PNC Financial Services,
today one of the largest financial institutions in the United States.[7]
Hillman served as a director of Pittsburgh National Bank from its founding
until 1988.[11]

The death of his father in 1959 put Hillman in charge of Hillman family
holdings, which he expanded many fold. Years in advance of the growing market
in private equity, he sold off industrial and chemical operations, took
Pittsburgh Coke private, and remade Hillman into a diversified investment
company.[1] Just several of the scores of companies acquired and sold between
the 1960s and 1990s were Marion Power Shovel Company, Copeland Refrigeration
Corp, American Flyers Airline Corporation, Bahnson Service Company, Global
Marine Systems, Joseph Magnin Co.,[12] Shakespeare Company, Read-Rite
Corporation, Texstar Corporation, Perrigo, Exide, and Bubba Gump Shrimp
Company.”[ _citation needed_ ]

One of the first to invest in private equity funds, Hillman in 1972 became a
founding limited partner in the first venture capital fund of the firm Kleiner
Perkins (Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers).[1] Through this fund and others,
as well as directly, Hillman invested in Genentech, Tandem Computers,
Hybritech, and numerous other high-tech start-ups in the Silicon Valley and
elsewhere. The Hillman Company was the largest single venture capital investor
in the country during the early 1980s.[13]

In 1976, Hillman became the first limited partner in the leveraged buyout firm
Kohlberg Kravis Roberts (KKR). Through KKR, Hillman participated in the
buyouts of, among others, American Forest Products Corporation; L. B. Foster
Company; Fred Meyer; Beatrice Companies, Inc. (Beatrice Foods); Duracell; and
RJR Nabisco.[ _citation needed_ ] The Hillman Company also became what Forbes
magazine described as "one of the country's largest, and lowest-profile,
commercial real estate developers", with properties from California to
Florida. Energy exploration and investments during this same period included
early and active development of coal-bed methane, a dynamic new segment of the
petroleum industry.[ _citation needed_ ]

During his career, Hillman served as a director of Chemical Bank & Trust
Co.[7] (an ancestor of JP Morgan Chase & Co.); the Copeland Corporation
(chairman 1970–1986);[14] Cummins Engine Company, Inc.;[15] Edgewater Steel;
General Electric Company; Global Marine Systems; Marion Power Shovel Company;
Marquette Cement Manufacturing; Merck & Co., Inc.; National Steel
Corporation;[7] Nichols-Homeshield Inc.; Shakespeare Company; Texas Gas
Transmission (chairman 1959–1975); and Wilson Marine Transit. He stepped down
from active management of The Hillman Company in 2004. As chairman, he
remained active in the company's governance.[ _citation needed_ ]

Hillman was inducted into the Private Equity Hall of Fame. He was named
Industrialist of the Year in 1968 by the Western Pennsylvania Chapter of the
National Society of Industrial Realtors[16] and Business Leader of the Year in
1989 by the Pennsylvania Chamber of Commerce.[17]

## Philanthropy[edit]

Active in Pittsburgh civic leadership since the years of the city's first
“renaissance” in the late 1940s,[18] Hillman has served as a director or
trustee of ACTION Housing, Inc.; the Carnegie Hero Fund Commission; Carnegie
Institute; Carnegie Library of Pittsburgh;[19] Children’s Hospital of
Pittsburgh; the Maurice Falk Medical Fund; Penn’s Southwest Association;[20]
Pittsburgh Regional Planning Association; Regional Industrial Development
Corporation of Southwestern Pennsylvania; the University of Pittsburgh, and
the Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh. He served as president of the
Allegheny Conference on Community Development from 1967-70[21] and as chair
from 1970-73.

As chair of the board of trustees of Hillman Family Foundations, Hillman
focused on philanthropic opportunities aimed at creating or enhancing a
competitive advantage for Pittsburgh. Notable gifts have included the Hillman
Library[22] of the University of Pittsburgh, Hillman Hall of Minerals and
Gems[23] at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History, the Henry L. Hillman Fund
for art acquisition at the Carnegie Museum of Art, the Elsie Hillman Chair in
Women and Politics[24] at Chatham University, the Elsie Hilliard Hillman Chair
of Women’s Health Research at Magee-Womens Research Institute, the Hillman
Cancer Center[25] of the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, the
Hillman Fellows Program for Innovative Cancer Research at the University of
Pittsburgh Cancer Institute,[26] the Hillman Center for Pediatric
Transplantation at Children’s Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC,[27] and the
Hillman Center for Future-Generation Technologies[28] at Carnegie Mellon
University.

In 2012 Henry began to give additional annual contributions to the Henry L.
Hillman Foundation to support community efforts and organizations that drive
the development of new ideas across the nonprofit sector in Pittsburgh.[29]

Hillman is a gold medalist of The Pennsylvania Society (with Elsie H.
Hillman). Together, he and Elsie Hillman received the Tree of Life Award from
the National Jewish Fund,[30] the Sheepskin Award from the Pennsylvania
Association of Colleges and Universities, and the gold medal award from the
American Institute of Architects, Pittsburgh chapter.[31]

## Personal life[edit]

Hillman married Elsie Hilliard (1925–2015) in Pittsburgh on May 12, 1945.[32]
They had four children: Juliet Lea Hillman Simonds, Audrey Hillman Fisher,
Henry L. Hillman, Jr., and William Talbott Hillman.[33] Hillman died on April
14, 2017, aged 98.[34][35]

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Henry Hillman". _Forbes_. Retrieved  April 14, 2017. 
  2. **^** "The Hillman Company". _hillmancompany.com_. Retrieved  December 7, 2015. 
  3. **^** "Company Overview of The Hillman Company". Bloomberg Business. Retrieved  October 19, 2015. 
  4. **^** "Grant Management for 18+ Foundations". _hillmanfamilyfoundations.org_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015. 
  5. **^** "Laureate: Henry L. Hillman". _CityBusiness_.   `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  6. **^** "A Conversation With Mr. Hillman". _Executive Report_.   `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "The Hillmans of Pittsburgh". _Forbes Magazine_. September 15, 1969.  
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Stevens, Sylvester (1968). _Pennsylvania: The Heritage of A Commonwealth_. West Palm Beach, FL: American Historical Company. pp.  547–48. 
  9. **^** "Those Who Have Made Local History". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. March 15, 1998.   `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  10. **^** "Highest Half Year in History". _The Miami News_. July 30, 1956. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  11. **^** Oravecz, John (May 30, 1987). "Inside Buys at PNC Hike Investment Rating". _The Pittsburgh Press_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  12. **^** Ferguson, George (April 11, 1980). "Utahn Welcomes a Chance To Be Part of Turnaround". _The Deseret News_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  13. **^** "Hillman: Capitalist Out Looking For a Venture". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. May 30, 1983. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  14. **^** "Changing Careers". _The Pittsburgh Press_. August 2, 1970. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  15. **^** "Changing Careers". _The Pittsburgh Press_. April 8, 1965. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  16. **^** "Hillman Man of Year". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. November 21, 1968. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  17. **^** "People on the Move". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. July 13, 1989. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archive. 
  18. **^** Sewald, Jeff (Spring 2014). "What Do I Know". _Pittsburgh Quarterly_. Archived from the original on September 13, 2015. Retrieved  October 19, 2015. 
  19. **^** "Carnegie Library's Board Names Two". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. June 3, 1972. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  20. **^** "Renaissance Goes Regionaldate=November 16, 1971". _The Pittsburgh Press_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archive. 
  21. **^** Spatter, Sam (February 17, 1970). "We Are Curing Social Woes, County Development Unit Says". _The Pittsburgh Press_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  22. **^** "Groundbreaking Held for Hillman Library". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. June 2, 1964. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  23. **^** Lowry, Patricia (April 23, 1985). "3 Exhibits Unveil Masterpieces of Jewelry and Gemstones". _The Pittsburgh Press_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  24. **^** "Chair at Chatham Honors Hillman". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. January 24, 1983. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  25. **^** "Cancer Treatment". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. June 22, 2005. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archive. 
  26. **^** Spice, Byron (June 20, 2005). "Hillmans To Give Pitt $20 Million For Research". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  27. **^** Fahy, Joe (May 20, 2005). "Children's Given $10 Million". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archive. 
  28. **^** "Henry L. Hillman Foundation Gives $10M". _Carnegie Mellon University_. Winter 2008. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Carnegie Mellon University website. 
  29. **^** "Henry L. Hillman Foundation Opportunity Fund". _hillmanfamilyfoundations.org_. Retrieved  October 19, 2015. 
  30. **^** "Tree of Life Award". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. October 7, 2002. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  31. **^** "AIA Gala". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. October 7, 2002. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archive. 
  32. **^** "Out of Town People See Hillman-Hilliard Wedding". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. May 14, 1945. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archives. 
  33. **^** "Civic Work Leads to Political Post". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. December 30, 1967. Retrieved  October 19, 2015 – via Google News Archive. 
  34. **^** "Pittsburgh Businessman, Philanthropist Henry L. Hillman Dies At 98". _CBS Pittsburgh_. April 14, 2017. Retrieved  April 15, 2017. 
  35. **^** Sabatini, Patricia (April 14, 2017). "Philanthropist, businessman Henry L. Hillman dies". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  April 15, 2017. 

## External links[edit]

  * Henry L. Hillman Foundation
  * Hillman Family Foundations
  * Hillman Hall of Minerals and Gems at the Carnegie Museum of Natural History
  * Elsie Hillman Chair in Women & Politics at Chatham University
  * Hillman Center for Pediatric Transplantation at the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Henry_Hillman&oldid=797834029"

Categories:

  * 1918 births
  * 2017 deaths
  * Princeton University alumni
  * American investors
  * American billionaires
  * United States Navy officers

Hidden categories:

  * Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL
  * Use mdy dates from April 2017
  * Infobox person using certain parameters when dead
  * Pages to import images to Wikidata
  * Articles with hCards
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2017

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Deutsch
  * Simple English
  * Türkçe

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 29 August 2017, at 12:45.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

