

# Humanities

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

The philosopher Plato – Roman copy of a work by Silanion for the Academia in
Athens (c. 370 BC)

**Humanities** are academic disciplines that study aspects of human society
and culture. In the renaissance, the term contrasted with divinity and
referred to what is now called classics, the main area of secular study in
universities at the time. Today, the humanities are more frequently contrasted
with natural, and sometimes social, sciences as well as professional
training.[1]

The humanities use methods that are primarily critical, or speculative, and
have a significant historical element[2]—as distinguished from the mainly
empirical approaches of the natural sciences,[2] yet, unlike the sciences, it
has no central discipline.[3] The humanities include ancient and modern
languages, literature, philosophy, geography, history, religion,[4] art and
musicology.

Scholars in the humanities are "humanity scholars" or _humanists_.[5] The term
"humanist" also describes the philosophical position of humanism, which some
"antihumanist" scholars in the humanities refuse. The Renaissance scholars and
artists were also called humanists. Some secondary schools offer humanities
classes usually consisting of English literature, global studies and art.

Human disciplines like history and cultural anthropology study subject matters
that the manipulative experimental method does not apply to—and instead mainly
use the comparative method[6] and comparative research.

## Contents

  * 1 Fields
    * 1.1 Anthropology
    * 1.2 Archaeology
    * 1.3 Classics
    * 1.4 History
    * 1.5 Linguistics and languages
    * 1.6 Law and politics
    * 1.7 Literature
    * 1.8 Performing arts
      * 1.8.1 Musicology
      * 1.8.2 Theatre
      * 1.8.3 Dance
    * 1.9 Philosophy
    * 1.10 Religion
    * 1.11 Visual arts
      * 1.11.1 History of visual arts
      * 1.11.2 Media types
        * 1.11.2.1 Drawing
        * 1.11.2.2 Painting
  * 2 Origin of the term
  * 3 History
  * 4 Today
    * 4.1 Education and employment
    * 4.2 In the United States
      * 4.2.1 The Humanities Indicators
      * 4.2.2 _The Humanities in American Life_
      * 4.2.3 In liberal arts education
      * 4.2.4 In the digital age
      * 4.2.5 STEM
    * 4.3 In Europe
      * 4.3.1 The value of the humanities debate
  * 5 Philosophical history
    * 5.1 Citizenship and self-reflection
    * 5.2 Humanistic theories and practices
    * 5.3 Truth and meaning
    * 5.4 Pleasure, the pursuit of knowledge and scholarship
    * 5.5 Romanticization and rejection
  * 6 See also
  * 7 References
  * 8 External links

## Fields[edit]

### Anthropology[edit]

Main article: Anthropology

Anthropology is the holistic "science of humans", a science of the totality of
human existence. The discipline deals with the integration of different
aspects of the social sciences, humanities and human biology. In the twentieth
century, academic disciplines have often been institutionally divided into
three broad domains. The natural _sciences_ seek to derive general laws
through reproducible and verifiable experiments. The _humanities_ generally
study local traditions, through their history, literature, music, and arts,
with an emphasis on understanding particular individuals, events, or eras. The
_social sciences_ have generally attempted to develop scientific methods to
understand social phenomena in a generalizable way, though usually with
methods distinct from those of the natural sciences.

The anthropological social sciences often develop nuanced descriptions rather
than the general laws derived in physics or chemistry, or they may explain
individual cases through more general principles, as in many fields of
psychology. Anthropology (like some fields of history) does not easily fit
into one of these categories, and different branches of anthropology draw on
one or more of these domains.[7] Within the United States, anthropology is
divided into four sub-fields: archaeology, physical or biological
anthropology, anthropological linguistics, and cultural anthropology. It is an
area that is offered at most undergraduate institutions. The word _anthropos_
(άνθρωπος) is from the Greek for "human being" or "person". Eric Wolf
described sociocultural anthropology as "the most scientific of the
humanities, and the most humanistic of the sciences".

The goal of anthropology is to provide a holistic account of humans and human
nature. This means that, though anthropologists generally specialize in only
one sub-field, they always keep in mind the biological, linguistic, historic
and cultural aspects of any problem. Since anthropology arose as a science in
Western societies that were complex and industrial, a major trend within
anthropology has been a methodological drive to study peoples in societies
with more simple social organization, sometimes called "primitive" in
anthropological literature, but without any connotation of "inferior".[8]
Today, anthropologists use terms such as "less complex" societies or refer to
specific modes of subsistence or production, such as "pastoralist" or
"forager" or "horticulturalist" to refer to humans living in non-industrial,
non-Western cultures, such people or folk ( _ethnos_ ) remaining of great
interest within anthropology.

The quest for holism leads most anthropologists to study a people in detail,
using biogenetic, archaeological, and linguistic data alongside direct
observation of contemporary customs.[9] In the 1990s and 2000s, calls for
clarification of what constitutes a culture, of how an observer knows where
his or her own culture ends and another begins, and other crucial topics in
writing anthropology were heard. It is possible to view all human cultures as
part of one large, evolving global culture. These dynamic relationships,
between what can be observed on the ground, as opposed to what can be observed
by compiling many local observations remain fundamental in any kind of
anthropology, whether cultural, biological, linguistic or archaeological.[10]

### Archaeology[edit]

Main article: Archaeology

Archaeology is the study of human activity through the recovery and analysis
of material culture. The archaeological record consists of artifacts,
architecture, biofacts or ecofacts, and cultural landscapes. Archaeology can
be considered both a social science and a branch of the humanities.[11] It has
various goals, which range from understanding culture history to
reconstructing past lifeways to documenting and explaining changes in human
societies through time.

Archaeology is thought of as a branch of anthropology in the United
States,[12] while in Europe, it is viewed as a discipline in its own right, or
grouped under other related disciplines such as history.

### Classics[edit]

Bust of Homer, the most famous Greek poet

Classics, in the Western academic tradition, refer to the studies of the
cultures of classical antiquity, namely Ancient Greek and Latin and the
Ancient Greek and Roman cultures. Classical studies are considered one of the
cornerstones of the humanities; however, its popularity declined during the
20th century. Nevertheless, the influence of classical ideas on many
humanities disciplines, such as philosophy and literature, remains strong.

### History[edit]

History is systematically collected information about the past. When used as
the name of a field of study, _history_ refers to the study and interpretation
of the record of humans, societies, institutions, and any topic that has
changed over time.

Traditionally, the study of history has been considered a part of the
humanities. In modern academia, history is occasionally classified as a social
science.

### Linguistics and languages[edit]

Main articles: Linguistics and Language

See also: All pages with a title containing _language_

While the scientific study of language is known as linguistics and is
generally considered a social science,[13] a natural science[14] or a
cognitive science,[15] the study of languages is still central to the
humanities. A good deal of twentieth-century and twenty-first-century
philosophy has been devoted to the analysis of language and to the question of
whether, as Wittgenstein claimed, many of our philosophical confusions derive
from the vocabulary we use; literary theory has explored the rhetorical,
associative, and ordering features of language; and historical linguists have
studied the development of languages across time. Literature, covering a
variety of uses of language including prose forms (such as the novel), poetry
and drama, also lies at the heart of the modern humanities curriculum.
College-level programs in a foreign language usually include study of
important works of the literature in that language, as well as the language
itself.

### Law and politics[edit]

A trial at a criminal court, the Old Bailey in London

Main article: Law

In common parlance, law means a rule that (unlike a rule of ethics) is
enforceable through institutions.[16] The study of law crosses the boundaries
between the social sciences and humanities, depending on one's view of
research into its objectives and effects. Law is not always enforceable,
especially in the international relations context. It has been defined as a
"system of rules",[17] as an "interpretive concept"[18] to achieve justice, as
an "authority"[19] to mediate people's interests, and even as "the command of
a sovereign, backed by the threat of a sanction".[20] However one likes to
think of law, it is a completely central social institution. Legal policy
incorporates the practical manifestation of thinking from almost every social
science and discipline of the humanities. Laws are politics, because
politicians create them. Law is philosophy, because moral and ethical
persuasions shape their ideas. Law tells many of history's stories, because
statutes, case law and codifications build up over time. And law is economics,
because any rule about contract, tort, property law, labour law, company law
and many more can have long-lasting effects on how productivity is organised
and the distribution of wealth. The noun _law_ derives from the late Old
English _lagu_ , meaning something laid down or fixed[21] and the adjective
_legal_ comes from the Latin word _LEX_.[22]

###  Literature[edit]

Main article: Literature

Shakespeare wrote some of the most acclaimed works in English literature.

**Literature** is a term that does not have a universally accepted definition,
but which has variably included all written work; writing that possesses
literary merit; and language that foregrounds literariness, as opposed to
ordinary language. Etymologically the term derives from Latin
_literatura/litteratura_ "writing formed with letters", although some
definitions include spoken or sung texts. Literature can be classified
according to whether it is fiction or non-fiction, and whether it is poetry or
prose; it can be further distinguished according to major forms such as the
novel, short story or drama; and works are often categorised according to
historical periods, or according to their adherence to certain aesthetic
features or expectations (genre).

###  Performing arts[edit]

The performing arts differ from the visual arts in so far as the former uses
the artist's own body, face, and presence as a medium, and the latter uses
materials such as clay, metal, or paint, which can be molded or transformed to
create some art object. Performing arts include acrobatics, busking, comedy,
dance, film, magic, music, opera, juggling, marching arts, such as brass
bands, and theatre.

Artists who participate in these arts in front of an audience are called
performers, including actors, comedians, dancers, musicians, and singers.
Performing arts are also supported by workers in related fields, such as
songwriting and stagecraft. Performers often adapt their appearance, such as
with costumes and stage makeup, etc. There is also a specialized form of fine
art in which the artists _perform_ their work live to an audience. This is
called Performance art. Most performance art also involves some form of
plastic art, perhaps in the creation of props. Dance was often referred to as
a _plastic art_ during the Modern dance era.

####  Musicology[edit]

Concert in the Mozarteum, Salzburg

Musicology as an academic discipline can take a number of different paths,
including historical musicology, ethnomusicology and music theory.
Undergraduate music majors generally take courses in all of these areas, while
graduate students focus on a particular path. In the liberal arts tradition,
musicology is also used to broaden skills of non-musicians by teaching skills
such as concentration and listening.

#### Theatre[edit]

Theatre (or theater) (Greek "theatron", _θέατρον_ ) is the branch of the
performing arts concerned with acting out stories in front of an audience
using combinations of speech, gesture, music, dance, sound and spectacle —
indeed any one or more elements of the other performing arts. In addition to
the standard narrative dialogue style, theatre takes such forms as opera,
ballet, mime, kabuki, classical Indian dance, Chinese opera, mummers' plays,
and pantomime.

#### Dance[edit]

Dance (from Old French _dancier_ , perhaps from Frankish) generally refers to
human movement either used as a form of expression or presented in a social,
spiritual or performance setting. Dance is also used to describe methods of
non-verbal communication (see body language) between humans or animals (bee
dance, mating dance), and motion in inanimate objects ( _theleaves danced in
the wind_ ). Choreography is the art of creating dances, and the person who
does this is called a choreographer.

Definitions of what constitutes dance are dependent on social, cultural,
aesthetic, artistic, and moral constraints and range from functional movement
(such as Folk dance) to codified, virtuoso techniques such as ballet.

### Philosophy[edit]

The works of Søren Kierkegaard overlap into many fields of the humanities,
such as philosophy, literature, theology, music, and classical studies.

Philosophy—etymologically, the "love of wisdom"—is generally the study of
problems concerning matters such as existence, knowledge, justification,
truth, justice, right and wrong, beauty, validity, mind, and language.
Philosophy is distinguished from other ways of addressing these issues by its
critical, generally systematic approach and its reliance on reasoned argument,
rather than experiments (experimental philosophy being an exception).[23]

Philosophy used to be a very comprehensive term, including what have
subsequently become separate disciplines, such as physics. (As Immanuel Kant
noted, "Ancient Greek philosophy was divided into three sciences: physics,
ethics, and logic.")[24] Today, the main fields of philosophy are logic,
ethics, metaphysics, and epistemology. Still, it continues to overlap with
other disciplines. The field of semantics, for example, brings philosophy into
contact with linguistics.

Since the early twentieth century, philosophy in English-speaking universities
has moved away from the humanities and closer to the formal sciences, becoming
much more _analytic._ Analytic philosophy is marked by emphasis on the use of
logic and formal methods of reasoning, conceptual analysis, and the use of
symbolic and/or mathematical logic, as contrasted with the Continental style
of philosophy.[25] This method of inquiry is largely indebted to the work of
philosophers such as Gottlob Frege, Bertrand Russell, G.E. Moore, and Ludwig
Wittgenstein.

###  Religion[edit]

The compass in this 13th-century manuscript is a symbol of God's act of
creation.

New philosophies and religions arose in both east and west, particularly
around the 6th century BC. Over time, a great variety of religions developed
around the world, with Hinduism, Sikhism, Jainism, and Buddhism in India,
Zoroastrianism in Persia being some of the earliest major faiths. In the east,
three schools of thought were to dominate Chinese thinking until the modern
day. These were Taoism, Legalism, and Confucianism. The Confucian tradition,
which would attain predominance, looked not to the force of law, but to the
power and example of tradition for political morality. In the west, the Greek
philosophical tradition, represented by the works of Plato and Aristotle, was
diffused throughout Europe and the Middle East by the conquests of Alexander
of Macedon in the 4th century BC.

Abrahamic religions are those religions deriving from a common ancient
tradition and traced by their adherents to Abraham (circa 1900 BCE), a
patriarch whose life is narrated in the Hebrew Bible/Old Testament, where he
is described as a prophet (Genesis 20:7), and in the Quran, where he also
appears as a prophet. This forms a large group of related largely monotheistic
religions, generally held to include Judaism, Christianity, and Islam, and
comprises over half of the world's religious adherents.

### Visual arts[edit]

#### History of visual arts[edit]

_Quatrain on Heavenly Mountain_ by Emperor Gaozong (1107–1187) of Song
Dynasty; fan mounted as album leaf on silk, four columns in cursive script.

The great traditions in art have a foundation in the art of one of the ancient
civilizations, such as Ancient Japan, Greece and Rome, China, Pakistan,
Greater Nepal, Mesopotamia and Mesoamerica.

Ancient Greek art saw a veneration of the human physical form and the
development of equivalent skills to show musculature, poise, beauty and
anatomically correct proportions. Ancient Roman art depicted gods as idealized
humans, shown with characteristic distinguishing features (e.g., Zeus'
thunderbolt).

In Byzantine and Gothic art of the Middle Ages, the dominance of the church
insisted on the expression of biblical and not material truths. The
Renaissance saw the return to valuation of the material world, and this shift
is reflected in art forms, which show the corporeality of the human body, and
the three-dimensional reality of landscape.

Eastern art has generally worked in a style akin to Western medieval art,
namely a concentration on surface patterning and local colour (meaning the
plain colour of an object, such as basic red for a red robe, rather than the
modulations of that colour brought about by light, shade and reflection). A
characteristic of this style is that the local colour is often defined by an
outline (a contemporary equivalent is the cartoon). This is evident in, for
example, the art of India, Tibet and Japan.

Religious Islamic art forbids iconography, and expresses religious ideas
through geometry instead. The physical and rational certainties depicted by
the 19th-century Enlightenment were shattered not only by new discoveries of
relativity by Einstein[26] and of unseen psychology by Freud,[27] but also by
unprecedented technological development. Increasing global interaction during
this time saw an equivalent influence of other cultures into Western art.

#### Media types[edit]

##### Drawing[edit]

Drawing is a means of making a picture, using any of a wide variety of tools
and techniques. It generally involves making marks on a surface by applying
pressure from a tool, or moving a tool across a surface. Common tools are
graphite pencils, pen and ink, inked brushes, wax color pencils, crayons,
charcoals, pastels, and markers. Digital tools that simulate the effects of
these are also used. The main techniques used in drawing are: line drawing,
hatching, crosshatching, random hatching, scribbling, stippling, and blending.
A computer aided designer who excels in technical drawing is referred to as a
_draftsman_ or _draughtsman_.

#####  Painting[edit]

Mona Lisa, by Leonardo da Vinci, is one of the most recognizable artistic
paintings in the Western world.

Painting taken literally is the practice of applying pigment suspended in a
carrier (or medium) and a binding agent (a glue) to a surface (support) such
as paper, canvas or a wall. However, when used in an artistic sense it means
the use of this activity in combination with drawing, composition and other
aesthetic considerations in order to manifest the expressive and conceptual
intention of the practitioner. Painting is also used to express spiritual
motifs and ideas; sites of this kind of painting range from artwork depicting
mythological figures on pottery to The Sistine Chapel to the human body
itself.

Colour is highly subjective, but has observable psychological effects,
although these can differ from one culture to the next. Black is associated
with mourning in the West, but elsewhere white may be. Some painters,
theoreticians, writers and scientists, including Goethe, Kandinsky, Isaac
Newton, have written their own colour theories. Moreover, the use of language
is only a generalization for a colour equivalent. The word "red", for example,
can cover a wide range of variations on the pure red of the spectrum. There is
not a formalized register of different colours in the way that there is
agreement on different notes in music, such as C or C# in music, although the
Pantone system is widely used in the printing and design industry for this
purpose.

Modern artists have extended the practice of painting considerably to include,
for example, collage. This began with cubism and is not painting in strict
sense. Some modern painters incorporate different materials such as sand,
cement, straw or wood for their texture. Examples of this are the works of []
or Anselm Kiefer. Modern and contemporary art has moved away from the historic
value of craft in favour of concept; this has led some[ _who?_ ] to say that
painting, as a serious art form, is dead, although this has not deterred the
majority of artists from continuing to practise it either as whole or part of
their work.

## Origin of the term[edit]

The word "humanities" is derived from the Renaissance Latin expression _studia
humanitatis_ , or "study of _humanitas_ " (a classical Latin word meaning—in
addition to "humanity" -- "culture, refinement, education" and, specifically,
an "education befitting a cultivated man"). In its usage in the early 15th
century, the _studia humanitatis_ was a course of studies that consisted of
grammar, poetry, rhetoric, history, and moral philosophy, primarily derived
from the study of Latin and Greek classics. The word _humanitas_ also gave
rise to the Renaissance Italian neologism _umanisti_ , whence "humanist",
"Renaissance humanism".[28]

## History[edit]

In the West, the study of the humanities can be traced to ancient Greece, as
the basis of a broad education for citizens.[29] During Roman times, the
concept of the seven liberal arts evolved, involving grammar, rhetoric and
logic (the trivium), along with arithmetic, geometry, astronomy and music (the
quadrivium).[30] These subjects formed the bulk of medieval education, with
the emphasis being on the humanities as skills or "ways of doing".

A major shift occurred with the Renaissance humanism of the fifteenth century,
when the humanities began to be regarded as subjects to study rather than
practice, with a corresponding shift away from traditional fields into areas
such as literature and history. In the 20th century, this view was in turn
challenged by the postmodernist movement, which sought to redefine the
humanities in more egalitarian terms suitable for a democratic society since
the Greek and Roman societies in which the humanities originated were not at
all democratic.[31] This was in keeping with the postmodernists' nuanced view
of themselves as the culmination of history.

## Today[edit]

### Education and employment[edit]

For many decades, there has been a growing public perception that a humanities
education inadequately prepares graduates for employment.[32] The common
belief is that graduates from such programs face underemployment and incomes
too low for a humanities education to be worth the investment.[33]

In fact, humanities graduates find employment in a wide variety of management
and professional occupations. In Britain, for example, over 11,000 humanities
majors found employment in the following occupations:

  * Education (25.8%)
  * Management (19.8%)
  * Media/Literature/Arts (11.4%)
  * Law (11.3%)
  * Finance (10.4%)
  * Civil service (5.8%)
  * Not-for-profit (5.2%)
  * Marketing (2.3%)
  * Medicine (1.7%)
  * Other (6.4%)[34]

Many humanities graduates finish university with no career goals in mind.[35]
Consequently, many spend the first few years after graduation deciding what to
do next, resulting in lower incomes at the start of their career; meanwhile,
graduates from career-oriented programs experience more rapid entry into the
labour market. However, usually within five years of graduation, humanities
graduates find an occupation or career path that appeals to them.[36][37] In
terms of employability, humanities graduates are seen to possess some of the
most sought-after skills in large organizations, such as literacy and
communication skills. [38]

There is empirical evidence that graduates from humanities programs earn less
than graduates from other university programs.[39][40] However, the empirical
evidence also shows that humanities graduates still earn notably higher
incomes than workers with no postsecondary education. Humanities graduates
also earn more as their careers progress; ten years after graduation, the
income difference between humanities graduates and graduates from other
university programs is no longer statistically significant.[35] Humanities
graduates can earn even higher incomes if they obtain advanced or professional
degrees.[41][42]

### In the United States[edit]

Main article: Humanities in the United States

#### The Humanities Indicators[edit]

The Humanities Indicators, unveiled in 2009 by the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences, are the first comprehensive compilation of data about the
humanities in the United States, providing scholars, policymakers and the
public with detailed information on humanities education from primary to
higher education, the humanities workforce, humanities funding and research,
and public humanities activities.[43][44] Modeled after the National Science
Board's Science and Engineering Indicators, the Humanities Indicators are a
source of reliable benchmarks to guide analysis of the state of the humanities
in the United States.

If "The STEM Crisis Is a Myth",[45] statements about a "crisis" in the
humanities are also misleading and ignore data of the sort collected by the
Humanities Indicators.[46][47]

#### _The Humanities in American Life_ [edit]

The 1980 United States Rockefeller Commission on the Humanities described the
humanities in its report, _The Humanities in American Life_ :

> Through the humanities we reflect on the fundamental question: What does it
mean to be human? The humanities offer clues but never a complete answer. They
reveal how people have tried to make moral, spiritual, and intellectual sense
of a world where irrationality, despair, loneliness, and death are as
conspicuous as birth, friendship, hope, and reason.

#### In liberal arts education[edit]

The Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences 2013 report _The Heart of
the Matter_ supports the notion of a broad "liberal arts education", which
includes study in disciplines from the natural sciences to the arts as well as
the humanities.[48][49]

Many colleges provide such an education; some require it. The University of
Chicago and Columbia University were among the first schools to require an
extensive core curriculum in philosophy, literature, and the arts for all
students.[50] Other colleges with nationally recognized, mandatory programs in
the liberal arts are Fordham University, St. John's College, Saint Anselm
College and Providence College. Prominent proponents of liberal arts in the
United States have included Mortimer J. Adler[51] and E. D. Hirsch, Jr..

#### In the digital age[edit]

Researchers in the humanities have developed numerous large- and small-scale
digital corpora, such as digitized collections of historical texts, along with
the digital tools and methods to analyze them. Their aim is both to uncover
new knowledge about corpora and to visualize research data in new and
revealing ways. Much of this activity occurs in a field called the digital
humanities.

#### STEM[edit]

Politicians in the United States currently espouse a need for increased
funding of the STEM fields, science, technology, engineering, mathematics.[52]
Federal funding represents a much smaller fraction of funding for humanities
than other fields such as STEM or medicine.[53] The result was a decline of
quality in both college and pre-college education in the humanities field.[53]

Former four-term Louisiana Governor, Edwin Edwards (D), has recently
acknowledged the importance of the humanities. In a video address[54] to the
academic conference,[55] _Revolutions in Eighteenth-Century Sociability_ ,
Edwards said

    Without the humanities to teach us how history has succeeded or failed in directing the fruits of technology and science to the betterment of our tribe of _homo sapiens_ , without the humanities to teach us how to frame the discussion and to properly debate the uses-and the costs-of technology, without the humanities to teach us how to safely debate how to create a more just society with our fellow man and woman, technology and science would eventually default to the ownership of—and misuse by—the most influential, the most powerful, the most feared among us.[56]

### In Europe[edit]

#### The value of the humanities debate[edit]

The contemporary debate in the field of critical university studies centers
around the declining value of the humanities.[57][58] As in America, there is
a perceived decline in interest within higher education policy in research
that is qualitative and does not produce marketable products. This threat ca
be seen in a variety of forms across Europe, but much critical attention has
been given to the field of research assessment in particular. For example, the
UK [Research Excellence Framework] has been subject to criticism due to its
assessment criteria from across the humanities, and indeed, the social
sciences.[59] In particular, the notion of "impact" has generated significant
debate.[60][61]

## Philosophical history[edit]

### Citizenship and self-reflection[edit]

Since the late 19th century, a central justification for the humanities has
been that it aids and encourages self-reflection—a self-reflection that, in
turn, helps develop personal consciousness or an active sense of civic duty.

Wilhelm Dilthey and Hans-Georg Gadamer centered the humanities' attempt to
distinguish itself from the natural sciences in humankind's urge to understand
its own experiences. This understanding, they claimed, ties like-minded people
from similar cultural backgrounds together and provides a sense of cultural
continuity with the philosophical past.[62]

Scholars in the late 20th and early 21st centuries extended that "narrative
imagination"[63] to the ability to understand the records of lived experiences
outside of one's own individual social and cultural context. Through that
narrative imagination, it is claimed, humanities scholars and students develop
a conscience more suited to the multicultural world we live in.[64] That
conscience might take the form of a passive one that allows more effective
self-reflection[65] or extend into active empathy that facilitates the
dispensation of civic duties a responsible world citizen must engage in.[64]
There is disagreement, however, on the level of influence humanities study can
have on an individual and whether or not the understanding produced in
humanistic enterprise can guarantee an "identifiable positive effect on
people."[66]

### Humanistic theories and practices[edit]

There are three major branches of knowledge: natural sciences, social
sciences, and the humanities. Technology is the practical extension of the
natural sciences, as politics is the extension of the social sciences.
Similarly, the humanities have their own practical extension, sometimes called
"transformative humanities" (transhumanities) or "culturonics" (Mikhail
Epstein's term):

  * Nature – natural sciences – technology –  transformation of nature
  *   * Society – social sciences –  politics – transformation of society
  *   * Culture – human sciences – culturonics – transformation of culture[67]

Technology, politics and culturonics are designed to transform what their
respective disciplines study: nature, society, and culture. The field of
transformative humanities includes various practicies and technologies, for
example, language planning, the construction of new languages, like Esperanto,
and invention of new artistic and literary genres and movements in the genre
of manifesto, like Romanticism, Symbolism, or Surrealism. Humanistic invention
in the sphere of culture, as a practice complementary to scholarship, is an
important aspect of the humanities.

### Truth and meaning[edit]

The divide between humanistic study and natural sciences informs arguments of
meaning in humanities as well. What distinguishes the humanities from the
natural sciences is not a certain subject matter, but rather the mode of
approach to any question. Humanities focuses on understanding meaning,
purpose, and goals and furthers the appreciation of singular historical and
social phenomena—an interpretive method of finding "truth"—rather than
explaining the causality of events or uncovering the truth of the natural
world.[68] Apart from its societal application, narrative imagination is an
important tool in the (re)production of understood meaning in history, culture
and literature.

Imagination, as part of the tool kit of artists or scholars, helps create
meaning that invokes a response from an audience. Since a humanities scholar
is always within the nexus of lived experiences, no "absolute" knowledge is
theoretically possible; knowledge is instead a ceaseless procedure of
inventing and reinventing the context a text is read in. Poststructuralism has
problematized an approach to the humanistic study based on questions of
meaning, intentionality, and authorship.[ _dubious – discuss_] In the wake of
the death of the author proclaimed by Roland Barthes, various theoretical
currents such as deconstruction and discourse analysis seek to expose the
ideologies and rhetoric operative in producing both the purportedly meaningful
objects and the hermeneutic subjects of humanistic study. This exposure has
opened up the interpretive structures of the humanities to criticism
humanities scholarship is "unscientific" and therefore unfit for inclusion in
modern university curricula because of the very nature of its changing
contextual meaning.[ _dubious – discuss_]

### Pleasure, the pursuit of knowledge and scholarship[edit]

Some, like Stanley Fish, have claimed that the humanities can defend
themselves best by refusing to make any claims of utility.[69] (Fish may well
be thinking primarily of literary study, rather than history and philosophy.)
Any attempt to justify the humanities in terms of outside benefits such as
social usefulness (say increased productivity) or in terms of ennobling
effects on the individual (such as greater wisdom or diminished prejudice) is
ungrounded, according to Fish, and simply places impossible demands on the
relevant academic departments. Furthermore, critical thinking, while arguably
a result of humanistic training, can be acquired in other contexts.[70] And
the humanities do not even provide any more the kind of social cachet (what
sociologists sometimes call "cultural capital") that was helpful to succeed in
Western society before the age of mass education following World War II.

Instead, scholars like Fish suggest that the humanities offer a unique kind of
pleasure, a pleasure based on the common pursuit of knowledge (even if it is
only disciplinary knowledge). Such pleasure contrasts with the increasing
privatization of leisure and instant gratification characteristic of Western
culture; it thus meets Jürgen Habermas' requirements for the disregard of
social status and rational problematization of previously unquestioned areas
necessary for an endeavor which takes place in the bourgeois public sphere. In
this argument, then, only the academic pursuit of pleasure can provide a link
between the private and the public realm in modern Western consumer society
and strengthen that public sphere that, according to many theorists,[ _who?_ ]
is the foundation for modern democracy.[ _citation needed_ ]

Others, like Mark Bauerlein, argue that professors in the humanities have
increasingly abandoned proven methods of epistemology ( _I care only about the
quality of your arguments, not your conclusions._ ) in favor of indoctrination
( _I care only about your conclusions, not the quality of your arguments._ ).
The result is that professors and their students adhere rigidly to a limited
set of viewpoints, and have little interest in, or understanding of, opposing
viewpoints. Once they obtain this intellectual self-satisfaction, persistent
lapses in learning, research, and evaluation are common.[71]

### Romanticization and rejection[edit]

Implicit in many of these arguments supporting the humanities are the makings
of arguments against public support of the humanities. Joseph Carroll asserts
that we live in a changing world, a world where "cultural capital" is replaced
with _scientific literacy_ , and in which the romantic notion of a Renaissance
humanities scholar is obsolete. Such arguments appeal to judgments and
anxieties about the essential uselessness of the humanities, especially in an
age when it is seemingly vitally important for scholars of literature, history
and the arts to engage in "collaborative work with experimental scientists or
even simply to make "intelligent use of the findings from empirical
science."[72]

## See also[edit]

  * Outline of the humanities (humanities topics)
  * Great Books
  * Great Books programs in Canada
  * Liberal arts
  * Social sciences
  * Human science
  * _The Two Cultures_
  * List of academic disciplines
  * Public humanities
  * "Periodic Table of Human Sciences" in Tinbergen's four questions
  * Environmental humanities

## References[edit]

  1. **^** _Oxford English Dictionary 3rd Edition_.  
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Humanity" 2.b, _Oxford English Dictionary_ 3rd Ed. (2003)
  3. **^** Bod, R. (2013). _A New History of the Humanities: The Search for Principles and Patterns from Antiquity to the Present_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. http://doi.org/10.1093/acprof:oso/9780199665211.001.0001
  4. **^** Stanford University, Stanford University. "What are the Humanities". _Stanford Humanities Center_. Stanford University. Retrieved  16 July 2016. 
  5. **^** "Humanist" Oxford English Dictionary. Oed.com
  6. **^** Wallace and Gach (2008) p.28
  7. **^** Wallerstein, I. (2003). "Anthropology, Sociology, and Other Dubious Disciplines". _Current Anthropology_. **44** (4): 453–465. doi:10.1086/375868.  
  8. **^** Lowie, Robert (1924). _Primitive Religion_. Routledge and Sons.  ; Tylor, Edward (1920). _Primitive Culture_. New York:: J. P. Putnam's Sons.   Originally published 1871.
  9. **^** Nanda, Serena and Richard Warms. _Culture Counts_. Wadsworth. 2008. Chapter One
  10. **^** Rosaldo, Renato. _Culture and Truth: The remaking of social analysis_. Beacon Press. 1993; Inda, John Xavier and Renato Rosaldo. _The Anthropology of Globalization_. Wiley-Blackwell. 2007
  11. **^** Sinclair, A. (2016) The Intellectual Base of Archaeological Research 2004-2013: a visualisation and analysis of its disciplinary links, networks of authors and conceptual language, Internet Archaeology 42. Retrieved 31 March 2017
  12. **^** Haviland, William A.; Prins, Harald E. L.; McBride, Bunny; Walrath, Dana (2010), _Cultural Anthropology: The Human Challenge_ (13th ed.), Cengage Learning, ISBN 0-495-81082-7  
  13. **^** Social Science Majors, University of Saskatchewan
  14. **^** Boeckx, Cedric. "Language as a Natural Object; Linguistics as a Natural Science" (PDF). 
  15. **^** Thagard, Paul, Cognitive Science, The Stanford Encyclopedia of Philosophy (Fall 2008 Edition), Edward N. Zalta (ed.).
  16. **^** Robertson, Geoffrey (2006). _Crimes Against Humanity_. Penguin. p.  90\. ISBN 978-0-14-102463-9. 
  17. **^** Hart, H. L. A. (1961). _The Concept of Law_. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-876122-8.  
  18. **^** Dworkin, Ronald (1986). _Law's Empire_. Harvard University Press. ISBN 0-674-51836-5.  
  19. **^** Raz, Joseph (1979). _The Authority of Law_. Oxford University Press. ISBN 0-19-956268-7.  
  20. **^** Austin, John (1831). _The Providence of Jurisprudence Determined_.  
  21. **^** Etymonline Dictionary
  22. **^** Mirriam-Webster's Dictionary
  23. **^** Thomas Nagel (1987). _What Does It All Mean? A Very Short Introduction to Philosophy_. Oxford University Press, pp. 4-5.
  24. **^** Kant, Immanuel (1785). _Groundwork of the Metaphysic of Morals_ , the first line.
  25. **^** See, e.g., Brian Leiter [1] "'Analytic' philosophy today names a style of doing philosophy, not a philosophical program or a set of substantive views. Analytic philosophers, crudely speaking, aim for argumentative clarity and precision; draw freely on the tools of logic; and often identify, professionally and intellectually, more closely with the sciences and mathematics than with the humanities."
  26. **^** Turney, Jon (2003-09-06). "Does time fly?". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  2008-05-01. 
  27. **^** "Internet Modern History Sourcebook: Darwin, Freud, Einstein, Dada". www.fordham.edu. Retrieved  2008-05-01. 
  28. **^** "humanism." Encyclopædia Britannica. Encyclopædia Britannica Online. Encyclopædia Britannica Inc., 2012. Web. 11 Apr. 2012. [2]
  29. **^** Bod, Rens; _A New History of the Humanities_ , Oxford University Press, Oxford, 2014.
  30. **^** Levi, Albert W.; _The Humanities Today_ , Indiana University Press, Bloomington, 1970.
  31. **^** Walling, Donovan R.; _Under Construction: The Role of the Arts and Humanities in Postmodern Schooling_ Phi Delta Kappa Educational Foundation, Bloomington, Indiana, 1997. Humanities comes from human
  32. **^** Hersh, Richard H. (1997-03-01). "Intention and Perceptions A National Survey of Public Attitudes Toward Liberal Arts Education". _Change: The Magazine of Higher Learning_. **29** (2): 16–23. doi:10.1080/00091389709603100. ISSN 0009-1383.  
  33. **^** Williams, Mary Elizabeth. "Hooray for "worthless" education!". _Salon_. Retrieved  2017-02-28. 
  34. **^** Kreager, Philip. "Humanities graduates and the British economy: The hidden impact" (PDF). 
  35. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Adamuti-Trache, Maria; et al. (2006). "The Labour Market Value of Liberal Arts and Applied Education Programs: Evidence from British Columbia". _Canadian Journal of Higher Education_. **36** : 49–74. CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al. (link)
  36. **^** Koc, Edwin W (2010). "The Liberal Arts Graduate College Hiring Market". _National Association of Colleges and Employers_ : 14–21. 
  37. **^** "Ten Years After College: Comparing the Employment Experiences of 1992–93 Bachelor's Degree Recipients With Academic and Career Oriented Majors" (PDF). 
  38. **^** Bulaitis, Zoe (2016). "Employability in Higher Education" (PDF). _Pearson Efficacy and Research_.  
  39. **^** "The Cumulative Earnings of Postsecondary Graduates Over 20 Years: Results by Field of Study".  
  40. **^** "Earnings of Humanities Majors with a Terminal Bachelor's Degree".  
  41. **^** "Boost in Median Annual Earnings Associated with Obtaining an Advanced Degree, by Gender and Field of Undergraduate Degree".  
  42. **^** "Earnings of Humanities Majors with an Advanced Degree".  
  43. **^** "American Academy of Arts & Sciences". Amacad.org. 2013-11-14. Retrieved  2014-01-04. 
  44. **^** "Humanities Indicators". Humanities Indicators. Retrieved  2014-01-04. 
  45. **^** Charette, Robert N. (2013-08-30). "The STEM Crisis Is a Myth - IEEE Spectrum". Spectrum.ieee.org. Retrieved 2014-01-04. 
  46. **^** Humanities Scholars See Declining Prestige, Not a Lack of Interest
  47. **^** Debating the State of the Humanities
  48. **^** Humanities, social sciences critical to our future
  49. **^** Colbert Report: The humanities do pay
  50. **^** Louis Menand, "The Problem of General Education," in _The Marketplace of Ideas_ (W. W. Norton, 2010), especially pp. 32-43.
  51. **^** Adler, Mortimer J.; "A Guidebook to Learning: For the Lifelong Pursuit of Wisdom"
  52. **^** Whitehouse.gov
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _America Is Raising A Generation Of Kids Who Can't Think Or Write Clearly_ , Business Insider
  54. **^** YouTube
  55. **^** Scedhs2014.uqam.ca
  56. **^** Academia.edu
  57. **^** Stefan Collini, "What Are Universities For?"(Penguin 2012)
  58. **^** Helen Small, "The Value of the Humanities"(Oxford University Press 2013)
  59. **^** Palgrave Communications 3, Article number: 17020 (2017) doi:10.1057/palcomms.2017.20
  60. **^** The Social Impact of the Arts http://www.palgrave.com/us/book/9780230572553
  61. **^** Bulaitis, Zoe (2017). "Measuring impact in the humanities: Learning from accountability and economics in a contemporary history of cultural value". _Palgrave Communications_.  
  62. **^** Dilthey, Wilhelm. _The Formation of the Historical World in the Human Sciences_ , 103.
  63. **^** von Wright, Moira. "Narrative imagination and taking the perspective of others," _Studies in Philosophy and Education_ 21, 4-5 (July, 2002), 407-416.
  64. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Nussbaum, Martha. _Cultivating Humanity_.
  65. **^** Harpham, Geoffrey. "Beneath and Beyond the Crisis of the Humanities," _New Literary History_ 36 (2005), 21-36.
  66. **^** Harpham, 31.
  67. **^** Mikhail Epstein. _The Transformative Humanities: A Manifesto_. New York and London: Bloomsbury Academic, 2012, p.12
  68. **^** Dilthey, Wilhelm. _The Formation of the Historical World in the Human Sciences_ , 103.
  69. **^** Fish, Stanley, The New York Times
  70. **^** Alan Liu, _Laws of Cool,_ 2004,
  71. **^** Bauerlein, Mark (13 November 2014). "Theory and the Humanities, Once More". _Inside Higher Ed_. Retrieved  27 February 2016. Jay treats it [theory] as transformative progress, but it impressed us as hack philosophizing, amateur social science, superficial learning, or just plain gamesmanship. 
  72. **^** ""Theory," Anti-Theory, and Empirical Criticism," _Biopoetics: Evolutionary Explorations in the Arts_ , Brett Cooke and Frederick Turner, eds., Lexington, Kentucky: ICUS Books, 1999, pp. 144-145. 152.

## External links[edit]

| Wikibooks has more on the topic of: _**Humanities**_  
---|---  
|  Wikiquote has quotations related to: _**Humanities**_  
---|---  
  
  * Institute for Comparative Research in Human and Social Sciences (ICR) -Japan
  * The American Academy of Arts and Sciences - USA
  * Humanities Indicators - USA
  * National Humanities Center - USA
  * The Humanities Association - UK
  * National Humanities Alliance
  * National Endowment for the Humanities - USA
  * Institute: Arts and Humanities
  * Australian Humanities Review
  * Australian Academy of the Humanities
  * European Science Foundation - Humanities
  * National
  * Dana Center for the Humanities at Saint Anselm College
  * American Academy _Commission on the Humanities and Social Sciences_
  * "Computer Games: Heart of the Humanities?" by Judd Ethan Ruggill - Antenna
  * "Games and Historical Narratives" by Jeremy Antley - Journal of Digital Humanities
  * Film about the Value of the Humanities

  * v
  * t
  * e

Humanities  
  
---  
  
  * Anthropology
  * Digital Humanities
  * History
  * Law
  * Literature
  * Performing arts
  * Politics
  * Philosophy
  * Religious studies
  * Visual arts

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Social sciences  
  
---  
Primary |

  * Anthropology
    * archaeology
    * cultural
    * linguistics
    * social
  * Economics
    * microeconomics
    * macroeconomics
  * Geography
    * human
    * integrative
  * History
    * cultural
    * economic
    * military
    * political
    * social
  * Law
    * jurisprudence
    * legal history
    * legal systems
  * Political science
    * international relations
    * psephology
    * public administration
    * public policy
  * Psychology
    * abnormal
    * biological
    * cognitive
    * developmental
    * personality
    * social
  * Sociology
    * criminology
    * demography
    * internet
    * rural
    * urban

  
  
Interdisciplinary |

  * Anthrozoology
  * Area studies
  * Business studies
  * Cognitive science
  * Communication studies
  * Community studies
  * Cultural studies
  * Development studies
  * Education
  * Environmental (social science
  * studies)
  * Food studies
  * Gender studies
  * Global studies
  * History of technology
  * Human ecology
  * Information science
  * International studies
  * Media studies
  * Philosophy of science
    * economics
    * history
    * psychology
    * social science
  * Planning 
    * land use
    * regional
    * urban
  * Political ecology
  * Political economy
  * Public health
  * Regional science
  * Science and technology studies
  * Science studies
    * historical
  * Social work

  
  
Other categorizations |

  * Humanities
  * _Geisteswissenschaft_
  * Human science

  
  
  * Index
  * Journals
  * Outline
  * Wikiversity

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Positivism  
  
---  
  
| Perspectives |

  * Antihumanism
  * Empiricism
  * Rationalism
  * Scientism

  
  
---|---  
Declinations |

  * Legal positivism
  * Logical positivism / analytic philosophy
  * Positivist school
  * Postpositivism
  * Sociological positivism
  * Machian positivism (empiriocriticism)
  * Rankean historical positivism
  * Polish positivism
  * Russian positivism (empiriomonism)

  
  
Principal concepts |

  * Consilience
  * Demarcation
  * Evidence
  * Induction
  * Justificationism
  * Pseudoscience
  * Critique of metaphysics
  * Unity of science
  * Verificationism

  
  
Antitheses |

  * Antipositivism
  * Confirmation holism
  * Critical theory
  * Falsifiability
  * _Geisteswissenschaft_
  * Hermeneutics
  * Historicism
  * Historism
  * Human science
  * Humanities
  * Problem of induction
  * Reflectivism

  
  
Related paradigm shifts  
in the history of science |

  * Non-Euclidean geometry (1830s)
  * Heisenberg uncertainty principle (1927)

  
  
Related topics |

  * Behavioralism
  * Critical rationalism
  * Criticism of science
  * Epistemological idealism
  * Epistemology
  * Holism in anthropology
  * Instrumentalism
  * Modernism
  * Naturalism in literature
  * Nomothetic–idiographic distinction
  * Objectivity in science
  * Operationalism
  * Phenomenalism
  * Philosophy of science
    * Deductive-nomological model
    * Ramsey sentence
    * Sense-data theory
  * Qualitative research
  * Relationship between religion and science
  * Sociology
  * Social science (Philosophy)
  * Structural functionalism
  * Structuralism
  * Structuration theory

  
  
|

Positivist-related debate  
  
---  
  
| Method |

  * 1890s  _Methodenstreit_ (economics)
  * 1909–1959  _Werturteilsstreit_
  * 1960s  _Positivismusstreit_
  * 1980s Fourth Great Debate in international relations
  * 1990s Science Wars

  
  
---|---  
Contributions |

  * 1830  _The Course in Positive Philosophy_
  * 1848  _A General View of Positivism_
  * 1869  _Critical History of Philosophy_
  * 1879  _Idealism and Positivism_
  * 1886  _The Analysis of Sensations_
  * 1927  _The Logic of Modern Physics_
  * 1936  _Language, Truth, and Logic_
  * 1959  _The Two Cultures_
  * 2001  _The Universe in a Nutshell_

  
  
Proponents |

  * Richard Avenarius
  * A. J. Ayer
  * Auguste Comte
  * Eugen Dühring
  * Émile Durkheim
  * Ernst Laas
  * Ernst Mach
  * Berlin Circle
  * Vienna Circle

  
  
Criticism |

  * 1909  _Materialism and Empiriocriticism_
  * 1923  _History and Class Consciousness_
  * 1934  _The Logic of Scientific Discovery_
  * 1936  _The Poverty of Historicism_
  * 1942  _World Hypotheses_
  * 1951  _Two Dogmas of Empiricism_
  * 1960  _Truth and Method_
  * 1962  _The Structure of Scientific Revolutions_
  * 1963  _Conjectures and Refutations_
  * 1964  _One-Dimensional Man_
  * 1968  _Knowledge and Human Interests_
  * 1978  _The Poverty of Theory_
  * 1980  _The Scientific Image_
  * 1986  _The Rhetoric of Economics_

  
  
Critics |

  * Theodor W. Adorno
  * Gaston Bachelard
  * Mario Bunge
  * Wilhelm Dilthey
  * Paul Feyerabend
  * Hans-Georg Gadamer
  * Thomas Kuhn
  * György Lukács
  * Karl Popper
  * Willard Van Orman Quine
  * Max Weber

  
  
Concepts in contention |

  * Knowledge
  * Phronesis
  * Truth
  * _Verstehen_

  
  
Category  
  
Authority control |

  * NDL: 00574765

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Humanities&oldid=815903918"

Categories:

  * Humanities

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 maint: Explicit use of et al.
  * All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2011
  * All accuracy disputes
  * Articles with disputed statements from February 2010
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from May 2012
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2012

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikibooks
  * Wikiquote
  * Wikiversity

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Aragonés
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * Башҡортса
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Български
  * Brezhoneg
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gaelg
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * Kalaallisut
  * Қазақша
  * Kreyòl ayisyen
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * मराठी
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Occitan
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پښتو
  * Polski
  * Română
  * Русиньскый
  * Русский
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * سنڌي
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Тоҷикӣ
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Vahcuengh
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * ייִדיש
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 17 December 2017, at 23:31.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

