

# Intercollegiate Rowing Association

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

The **Intercollegiate Rowing Association** runs the **IRA National
Championship Regatta** , which is considered to be the United States
collegiate national championship of rowing. Since 1895, it has been held in
numerous locations, such as the Cooper River in Pennsauken, New Jersey. This
regatta includes both men's and women's (lightweight) events for sweep boats
of all sizes. Today, Columbia, Cornell, Pennsylvania, Navy, and Syracuse are
members of the association. Each year these five schools choose whom to invite
to the regatta and are responsible for its organization along with the ECAC.
The IRA is the oldest college rowing championship in the United States. The
IRA governs intercollegiate rowing between varsity/club rowing programs across
the United States.[1] It is the direct successor to the Rowing Association of
American Colleges, the first collegiate athletic organization in the United
States,[2] which operated from 1870–1894.

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Champions
  * 3 See also
  * 4 References
  * 5 External links

## History[edit]

The University of Wisconsin varsity sport rowing team competing in the
Intercollegiate Rowing Association regatta on June 11, 1914 at the
Poughkeepsie Bridge

Columbia, Cornell and Pennsylvania were the organizing stewards of the IRA
Regatta first held on the Hudson River at Poughkeepsie, New York, on June 24,
1895.

The format through 1967 with the exception of 1964 was to line all the entries
in the race onto stake-boats and fire a shotgun for the start. In the last
race of this format in 1967 on Onondaga Lake, in Syracuse, New York, 16
varsity crews waited for the gun to begin their three-mile race — winner take
all.

The format was changed in the Olympic year, 1968, to heats and finals over a
2000-meter, six-lane course. This heat-rep-final, six-lane, 2000 meter format
continues today.[3]

Since the 1920s, when the West Coast crews — notably California and Washington
— began to attend and regularly win, most crews considered the Intercollegiate
Rowing Association's championship (known as the IRA) to be a _de facto_
national championship. Two important crews, Harvard and Yale, however, did not
participate in the heavyweight divisions of the event. (After losing to
Cornell in 1897, Harvard and Yale chose to avoid the IRA, so as not to
diminish the Harvard-Yale Regatta. It soon became part of each school's
tradition not to go). And beginning in 1973, Washington decided to skip the
IRA because of change in schedule conflicted with its finals. Washington,
however, returned to the regatta in 1995. In 2003, after an absence of over
one hundred years, Harvard and Yale decided to participate. The Harvard
Freshman eight competed at the 1970 IRA Regatta, finishing seventh in the
Freshman event.

##  Champions[edit]

    _For collegiate rowing champions (U.S.), see:Intercollegiate sports team champions#Rowing_
    _For IRA " **men's** varsity **heavyweight eights** " champions (1895–present), see: Intercollegiate sports team champions#Varsity Openweight Eights_
    _For IRA " **men's** varsity **lightweight eights** " champions (1988–present), see: Intercollegiate sports team champions#Varsity Lightweight Eights_
    _For IRA " **men's overall points** " champions (1952–present), see: Intercollegiate sports team champions#Overall Points_
    _For IRA " **women's** varsity **lightweight eights** " champions (1997–present), see: Intercollegiate sports team champions#Varsity Lightweight Eights_
    _For IRA " **men's** varsity **lightweight fours** " champions (2011–present), see: Intercollegiate sports team champions#Lightweight Fours.2FPairs_
    _For IRA " **women's** varsity **lightweight fours** " champions (2007–present), see: Intercollegiate sports team champions#Lightweight Fours.2FPairs_

## See also[edit]

  * National Collegiate Rowing Championship
  * Poughkeepsie Regatta

## References[edit]

  1. **^** http://www.row2k.com/ira/2012/05182012IRA110thInvitationandEntry.pdf
  2. **^** "Rowing Association of American Colleges". Retrieved  2009-12-16. 
  3. **^** List of Champions

##  External links[edit]

  * IRA coverage on row2k
  * Regatta coverage on RegattaCentral

  * v
  * t
  * e

Rowing  
  
---  
Australian rowing |

  * Rowing Australia
  * Rowing Championships
  * Head of the River

|  
  
Canadian rowing |

  * Canadian Henley
  * Rowing Canada
  * Secondary School Rowing Association
  * University Rowing Association

  
  
New Zealand rowing |

  * List of New Zealand rowers at the Summer Olympics
  * Maadi Cup
  * Rowing New Zealand
  * The Great Race

  
  
UK rowing |

  * Boston Marathon
  * British Rowing
  * British Rowing Championships
  * Head of the River Race
  * Henley Boat Races
  * Henley Royal Regatta
  * Henley Women's Regatta
  * Scottish Boat Race
  * Scottish Rowing
  * Nat. Schools
  * The Boat Race
  * University rowing
  * Welsh Rowing
  * Women's Boat Race
  * Women's Eights Head of the River Race

  
  
US rowing |

  * College rowing
  * CRASH-B Sprints
  * Dad Vail Regatta
  * Harvard–Yale Regatta
  * Head of the Charles Regatta
  * Head of the Fish
  * Head of the Hooch
  * Head of the Ohio
  * Head of the Schuylkill Regatta
  * IRA Championship Regatta
  * NCAA Rowing Championship
  * Poughkeepsie Regatta
  * Stotesbury Cup

  
  
FISA events |

  * Olympic Games
  * Paralympic Games
  * World Rowing Championships
  * World Rowing Cup
  * World Rowing Junior Championships
  * World Rowing U23 Championships
  * European Rowing Championships
  * Asian Rowing Championships

  
  
Types of rowing |

  * Adaptive
  * Coastal
  * Indoor rower
  * Lightweight
  * Racing shell
  * Sculling
  * Sweep
  * Rowing tank
  * Women's

  
  
Lists |

  * Glossary of rowing terms
  * Club oars
  * National oars
  * Rowing boat manufacturers
  * Rowing venues
  * School and university oars
  * World records

  
  
**Category**   **Commons**  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Intercollegiate_Rowing_Association&oldid=744509073"

Categories:

  * Camden County, New Jersey
  * College rowing in the United States
  * College sports championships in the United States
  * College sports governing bodies in the United States
  * College sports in New Jersey
  * Rowing governing bodies
  * Rowing regattas
  * Sports in Syracuse, New York

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 15 October 2016, at 18:12.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

