

# Intellectual freedom

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

**Intellectual freedom** encompasses the freedom to hold, receive and
disseminate ideas without restriction.[1] Viewed as an integral component of a
democratic society, intellectual freedom protects an individual's right to
access, explore, consider, and express ideas and information as the basis for
a self-governing, well-informed citizenry. Intellectual freedom comprises the
bedrock for freedoms of expression, speech, and the press and relates to
freedoms of information and privacy.

The United Nations upholds intellectual freedom as a basic human right through
Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which asserts:

    Everyone has the right to freedom of opinion and expression; this right includes freedom to hold opinions without interference and to seek, receive and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.[2]

The institution of libraries in particular values intellectual freedom as part
of their mission to provide and protect access to information and ideas. The
American Library Association (ALA) defines intellectual freedom as "the right
of every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of
view without restriction. It provides for free access to all expressions of
ideas through which any and all sides of a question, cause or movement can be
explored."[3]

The modern concept of intellectual freedom developed out of an opposition to
book censorship.[4] It is promoted by several professions and movements. These
entities include, among others, librarianship, education, and the Free
Software Movement.

## Contents

  * 1 Issues
  * 2 History
    * 2.1 _Abrams v. United States_ (1919)
    * 2.2 _Whitney v. California_ (1927)
    * 2.3 _Olmstead v. United States_ (1928)
    * 2.4 _United States v. Schwimmer_ (1929)
    * 2.5 Library Bill of Rights (1939)
    * 2.6 Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948)
    * 2.7 Lauterbach Award acceptance speech (1953)
    * 2.8 The Freedom to Read (1953)
  * 3 Intellectual freedom and librarianship
    * 3.1 Intellectual Freedom Committee
    * 3.2 Office for Intellectual Freedom
    * 3.3 Intellectual Freedom Round Table
    * 3.4 Freedom to Read Foundation
    * 3.5 LeRoy C. Merritt Humanitarian Fund
    * 3.6 Intellectual Freedom Manual
    * 3.7 Collaboration between associated organizations
  * 4 Intellectual Freedom Awards
    * 4.1 Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award
    * 4.2 Eli M. Oboler Memorial Award
    * 4.3 John Phillip Immroth Memorial Award
    * 4.4 Gerald Hodges Intellectual Freedom Chapter Relations Award
    * 4.5 AASL Intellectual Freedom Award
    * 4.6 Gordon M. Conable Award
  * 5 Intellectual freedom under authoritarian rule
  * 6 Intellectual freedom in democratic countries during times of crises
    * 6.1 Canada
    * 6.2 United States
  * 7 See also
  * 8 References
  * 9 Further reading
  * 10 External links

## Issues[edit]

Intellectual freedom encompasses many areas including issues of academic
freedom, Internet filtering, and censorship.[5] Because proponents of
intellectual freedom value an individual's right to choose informational
concepts and media to formulate thought and opinion without repercussion,
restrictions to access and barriers to privacy of information constitute
intellectual freedom issues. Issues surrounding restrictions to access
include:

  * banned books, book burning, and challenges to literature
  * censorship and attempts to censor including, but not limited to book censorship, film censorship, censorship of music, censorship of maps, censorship of individual words, censorship of comic books, and video game censorship
  * self-censorship by authors, editors, journalists, or library materials selectors
  * internet filtering through content-control software
  * internet filtering through internet censorship
  * internet safety legislation and initiatives such as Children's Internet Protection Act (CIPA) and Neighborhood Internet Protection Act (NCIPA)
  * net neutrality
  * government information and freedom of information laws

Issues concerning barriers to privacy of information include:

  * data mining
  * surveillance
  * data protection and information privacy laws and practices
  * confidentiality of library users' records of access
  * legislation that suspends civil liberties in the name of national security such as the Patriot Act and the Homeland Security Act

While proponents of intellectual freedom work to prohibit acts of censorship,
calls for censorship are valued as free speech. "In expressing their opinions
and concerns, would-be censors are exercising the same rights librarians seek
to protect when they confront censorship. In making their criticisms known,
people who object to certain ideas are exercising the same rights as those who
created and disseminated the material to which they object."[6] The first
amendment right to voice opinions and persuade others—both for the exclusion
and inclusion of content and concepts—should be protected.

## History[edit]

The contemporary definition, limits, and inclusions of intellectual freedom
primarily developed through a number of common law common law judgements by
the United States Supreme Court regarding the First Amendment and policy
statements of groups dedicated to the advocacy and defense of civil liberties.

### _Abrams v. United States_ (1919) [edit]

Main article: Abrams v. United States

In his oft-quoted dissent on the free speech case of two defendants convicted
of inciting anti-war sentiment and action, Supreme Court justice Louis
Brandeis aligns the freedoms of speech and expression with the freedom of
thought as follows:

    Persecution for the expression of opinions seems to me perfectly logical. If you have no doubt of your premises or your power and want a certain result with all your heart you naturally express your wishes in law and sweep away all opposition . . . But when men have realized that time has upset many fighting faiths, they may come to believe even more than they believe the very foundations of their own conduct that the ultimate good desired is better reached by free trade in ideas. . . The best test of truth is the power of the thought to get itself accepted in the competition of the market, and that truth is the only ground upon which their wishes can be safely carried out."[7]

### _Whitney v. California_ (1927) [edit]

Main article: Whitney v. California

A case in which the Supreme Court sustains the conviction of a woman for anti-
government speech akin to terrorism. In his opinion, Justice Brandeis
delineates the role of freedom of thought to inform free speech attributed the
value of intellectual freedom as a civil liberty to the founders of the United
States, asserting:

    Those who won our independence believed that the final end of the state was to make men free to develop their faculties. . . They believed that freedom to think as you will and to speak as you think are means indispensable to the discovery and spread of political truth.[8]

### _Olmstead v. United States_ (1928) [edit]

Main article: Olmstead v. United States

A case in which the US Supreme Court deliberated whether a citizen's Fourth or
Fifth Amendment rights were violated when evidence to convict him of
bootlegging was obtained through wiretapping. Justice Brandeis provides
precedence for the inclusion of intellectual freedom as constitutional right
in his dissenting opinion, claiming the US Constitution's authors "recognized
the significance of man's spiritual nature, his feelings, and his intellect"
and "sought to protect Americans in their beliefs, their thoughts, their
emotions and their sensations." Brandeis would ultimately argue for the right
to privacy, another important dimension of intellectual freedom, as an
extension of American civil rights.[9]

### _United States v. Schwimmer_ (1929) [edit]

Main article: United States v. Schwimmer

In the Supreme Court's upheld decision to deny citizenship to a Hungarian
immigrant because she refused to pledge to take up arms to defend the United
States out of her pacifist views and beliefs, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes,
Jr. personally disagrees with the defendant's views and professionally upholds
Schwimmer's position when he writes,

    Some of her answers might excite popular prejudice, but if there is any principle of the Constitution that more imperatively calls for attachment than any other it is the principle of free thought – not free thought for those who agree with us but freedom for the thought we hate.[10]

### Library Bill of Rights (1939)[edit]

Main article: Library Bill of Rights

The American Library Association adopts the Library Bill of Rights affirming
"that all libraries are forums for information and ideas." Originally a three-
point declaration to guide services in American free public libraries
including statements on "growing intolerance, suppression of free speech, and
censorship," today the Library Bill of Rights includes six basic policies to
guide library services that affirm intellectual freedom.

### Universal Declaration of Human Rights (1948)[edit]

Main article: Universal Declaration of Human Rights

Following World War II, the United Nations adopts The Universal Declaration of
Human Rights as a "foundation of human rights law" consisting of 30 articles
on international freedoms among the nations of the UN General Assembly.[11]
Articles 18 and 19 specifically affirm rights to freedoms of thought, opinion,
and expression, as well as the right to "seek, receive, and impart information
and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers."[12]

### Lauterbach Award acceptance speech (1953)[edit]

In his 1953 acceptance speech for the Lauterbach Award for support of civil
liberties, Supreme Court justice William O. Douglas affirms that "safety of
our civilization lies in making freedom of thought and freedom of speech
vital, vivid features of life" and condemns "Restriction of free thought and
free speech is the most dangerous of all subversions," labeling it an "un-
American act."[13]

### The Freedom to Read (1953)[edit]

The American Library Association adopts The Freedom to Read, a key library
policy endorsing an individual's civil rights to free expression and
intellectual freedom through the exchange of ideas through reading and
writing. The ALA's The Freedom to Read includes seven affirmations and
responsibilities to protect an individual's right to read as a basic tenet of
democracy. In 1979, the ALA expands upon The Freedom to Read, adopting The
Freedom to View, a policy which extends the understanding of intellectual
freedom to include the visual acquisition of information through visual media
such as art, video, movies, pictures, the internet, and more.

## Intellectual freedom and librarianship[edit]

The profession of librarianship views intellectual freedom as a core
responsibility. The International Federation of Library Associations and
Institutions' (IFLA) Statement on Libraries and Intellectual Freedom "calls
upon libraries and library staff to adhere to the principles of intellectual
freedom, uninhibited access to information and freedom of expression and to
recognize the privacy of library user." IFLA urges its members to actively
promote the acceptance and realization of intellectual freedom principles.
IFLA states: "The right to know is a requirement for freedom of thought and
conscience; freedom of thought and freedom of expression are necessary
conditions for freedom of access to information."[14]

Individual national library associations expand upon these principles when
defining intellectual freedom for their constituents. For example, the
American Library Association defines intellectual freedom as: "[T]he right of
every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of view
without restriction. It provides for free access to all expressions of ideas
through which any and all sides of a question, cause or movement may be
explored. .... Intellectual freedom encompasses the freedom to hold, receive
and disseminate ideas."[15]

The Canadian Library Association's _Position Statement on Intellectual
Freedom_ states that all persons possess "the fundamental right ... to have
access to all expressions of knowledge, creativity and intellectual activity,
and to express their thoughts publicly."[16] This right was enshrined into law
in 2004 in British Columbia, which grants protection against litigation for
libraries for their holdings.[17]

Many other national library associations have similarly adopted statements on
intellectual freedom.

The ALA's Office for Intellectual Freedom organizes the relationship between
librarianship and intellectual freedom into five distinct categories:

  * The library user's access to information through a library collection
  * The librarian's professional responsibilities to select a diverse collection of library materials for users and protect library users' confidentiality and rights to privacy in their use of library materials
  * The librarian's personal rights to free expression and choices of lifestyle and public participation without professional repercussion
  * The library's institutional role as an agent of social change, democracy, and education
  * The issue of advocacy v. neutrality for libraries and librarians[18]

Libraries protect, defend, and advocate for intellectual freedom through a
variety of organizations and resources.

### Intellectual Freedom Committee[edit]

The Intellectual Freedom Committee (IFC) is a council committee of the
American Library Association (ALA), composed of 11 ALA members who are
appointed by ALA's Council to serve 2-year terms.[19] The Intellectual Freedom
Committee functions as an advisory and educational arm of the ALA's commitment
to intellectual freedom. The IFC recommends policies concerning intellectual
freedom and censorship, drafts guidelines for library professionals to
advocate and defend intellectual freedom including The Universal Right to Free
Expression and Importance of Education to Intellectual Freedom, and drafts
policy statements adopted by the ALA including several interpretation
statements on the Library Bill of Rights such as:

  * Access to Electronic Information, Services, and Networks
  * Access to Library Resources and Services Regardless of Gender or Sexual Orientation
  * Free Access to Libraries for Minors
  * Prisoners' Right to Read
  * Statement on Library Use of Filtering Software[20]

The IFC drafts and submits statements to the ALA as part of the committee's
charge to "recommend such steps as may be necessary to safeguard the rights of
library users, libraries, and librarians, in accordance with the first
amendment to the united states constitution and the Library Bill of Rights as
adopted by the ALA Council [and] work closely with the Office for Intellectual
Freedom and with other units and officers of the association in matters
touching intellectual freedom and censorship."[21]

Formed in 1940 and originally titled 'Committee on Intellectual Freedom to
Safeguard the Rights of Library Users to Freedom of Inquiry,' the committee
has also been known as 'Committee on Intellectual Freedom' before the
currently titled 'Intellectual Freedom Committee.'[22] Following the ALA's
formation of the IFC to promote intellectual freedom on a national level, many
regional and state library associations have established additional
intellectual freedom committees on the state level.

### Office for Intellectual Freedom[edit]

The American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom (OIF)
serves as an administrative arm of ALA committees such as the Intellectual
Freedom Committee and the Committee on Professional Ethics.[23] Principally
charged with implementing ALA policies concerning intellectual freedom, the
OIF focuses efforts on intellectual freedom education and coordination of
intellectual freedom activities, events, and organizations and views the
"responsibility of the office to recommend, develop, implement, and maintain a
total intellectual freedom program for ALA.[24] OIF functions include:

  * **Banned Books Week** , an annual event that celebrates the freedom to read sponsored by publishing, bookselling, civil rights, teaching, and library organizations associated with intellectual freedom.[25]
  * **Choose Privacy Week** , an annual event that promotes conversation and provides resources for individuals to think more critically about digital-age privacy rights. The OIF partners with many national coalitions focused upon digital rights and privacy such as the American Civil Liberties Union (ACLU), the Center for Information Policy Research (CIPR), the Center For Democracy & Technology, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF), the Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC), and Privacy Rights Clearinghouse (PRC).[24]
  * **Frequently Challenged Books List** , a database of challenged materials collected from news reports and individuals (often through the OIF's electronic _Challenge Reporting Form_. Although the database provides information on banned books, challenged books, frequently challenged authors, and challenged classics since 1990, the OIF asserts that they "do not claim comprehensiveness in recording challenges as research suggests that for each challenge reported there are as many as four or five that go unreported."[26]
  * _**Newsletter on Intellectual Freedom**_ ( _ **NIF**_ ), a bimonthly digital publication serving as "the only journal that reports attempts to remove materials from school and library shelves across the country."[27]
  * **Intellectual Freedom Action Network (IFAN)** , an ad hoc, grassroots group of volunteers who liaison between the national efforts of the OIF and intellectual freedom issues within members' communities. IFAN members monitor censorship issues in their communities and lend support to anti-censorship and intellectual freedom instances through civic involvement such as letters to the editor or political representatives and/or attendance at public meetings and hearings concerning intellectual freedom.[28]
  * **IFACTION** , an e-list education forum on intellectual freedom issues and concepts that replaced the OIF's former print newsletter, _Intellectual Freedom News_.[29]
  * **Webinars** , including a sizable archive of webinars concerning intellectual freedom issues.[30]

### Intellectual Freedom Round Table[edit]

The ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table (IFRT) functions as a forum for ALA
members to participate in intellectual freedom initiatives and efforts. The
IFRT serves as a communication channel and promotional group for ALA members
seeking increasing participation and knowledge in intellectual freedom
concepts and issues. While the IFRT mirrors other intellectual freedom
organizations through monitoring, support, and educational efforts, the IFRT
provides more varied intellectual freedom discussion forums for librarians in
two ways:

  * Organizing state and local level intellectual freedom discussion programs and activities
  * Planning and sponsoring conference programs on topics related to intellectual freedom

In addition to encouraging and fostering a community of librarians learning,
promoting, and defending intellectual freedom principles, the IFRT administers
three intellectual freedom awards (see below) and produces an Intellectual
Freedom Report to members of the American Library Association four times per
year.[31]

### Freedom to Read Foundation[edit]

The Freedom to Read Foundation was incorporated in 1969 by members of the
American Library Association. Although founded by ALA members, the FTRF is a
separate organization from ALA with separate membership focused upon the legal
defense of intellectual freedom for libraries, librarians, library staff, and
library trustees.[32] While the FTRF participates in intellectual freedom
education efforts, the FTRF primarily aims to "support and defend librarians
whose positions are jeopardized because of their resistance to abridgments of
the First Amendment; and to set legal precedent for the freedom to read on
behalf of all the people."[33] In the foundation's commitment to "the
principle that the solution to offensive speech is more speech, and the
suppression of speech on the grounds that it gives offense to some infringes
on the rights of all to a free, open and robust marketplace of ideas,"[34] the
FTRF awards and distributes grants to aid intellectual freedom litigation,
directly participates as a party to intellectual freedom litigation, and
submits amicus curiae briefs in freedom of speech and freedom of the press
cases.[35] FTRF assistance to library staff whose jobs have been jeopardized
due to their defense of intellectual freedom "attempts to obviate the choice
between upholding intellectual freedom principles and" what lauded librarian
and library-science scholar Lester Asheim called "three square meals a
day."[36][37] The organization's charter describes four purposes for the
Foundation, including:

  * Promoting and protecting the freedom of speech and of the press;
  * Protecting the public's right of access to information and materials stored in the nation's libraries;
  * Safeguarding libraries' right to disseminate all materials contained in their collections; and
  * Supporting libraries and librarians in their defense of First Amendment rights by supplying them with legal counsel or the means to secure it.[34]

### LeRoy C. Merritt Humanitarian Fund[edit]

The LeRoy C. Merritt Humanitarian Fund provides financial assistance to
librarians who are:

  * "Denied employment rights or discriminated against on the basis of gender, sexual orientation, race, color, creed, religion, age, disability, or place of national origin; or
  * Denied employment rights because of defense of intellectual freedom; that is, threatened with loss of employment or discharged because of their stand for the cause of intellectual freedom, including promotion of freedom of the press, freedom of speech, the freedom of librarians to select items for their collections from all the world’s written and recorded information, and defense of privacy rights."[38]

Originally established by the Freedom to Read Foundation in 1970,[39] the
Merritt Fund now functions independently, governed by three trustees elected
by donors to the fund.[40] The fund's namesake LeRoy C. Merritt participated
in the defense and advocacy of intellectual freedom throughout his life in a
variety of ways including authoring numerous intellectual freedom and anti-
censorship books and articles, editing the ALA's Newsletter on Intellectual
Freedom from 1962 to 1970, as the first recipient of the Robert B. Downs
Intellectual Freedom Award, and, donating the entirety of the Downs prize to
the Freedom to Read Foundation, as the FTRF's first benefactor.[41]

### Intellectual Freedom Manual[edit]

The American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom publishes
the _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , now in its eighth edition. Considered an
authoritative resource on intellectual freedom for library professionals, it
is also of use to members of the public who wish to stay informed of the most
recent policies and developments in the field.[42] As well as providing an
historical overview of the topic, it is divided into parts which cover key
issues such as the Library Bill of Rights, protecting the freedom to read,
intellectual freedom and the law, and preserving, protecting and working for
intellectual freedom.[4] Expanding on the new addition to the manual is the
section on Privacy; an Interpretation of the Library Bill of Rights [43]

### Collaboration between associated organizations[edit]

Many of the entities listed above collaborate with one another and other
organizations including:

  * Association of American Publishers
  * American Booksellers Association
  * American Booksellers Association for Free Expression
  * Center for Democracy and Technology
  * Internet Education Foundation
  * Media Coalition
  * National Coalition Against Censorship
  * PEN American Center
  * state and regional First Amendment organizations
  * state library association intellectual freedom committees
  * intellectual freedom coalitions

## Intellectual Freedom Awards[edit]

### Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award[edit]

Since 1969, the Graduate School of Library and Information Science (GSLIS) at
the University of Illinois annually awards the Robert B. Downs Intellectual
Freedom Award. GSLIS faculty named this award for Robert B. Downs on his 25th
anniversary as director of the School in honor of his role as a champion for
intellectual freedom.[44] Downs, also a former President and Vice-President of
the ALA, focused his library career working against, and voicing opposition
to, literary censorship and authored many books and publications on topics of
censorship and intellectual freedom.[45] Awarded to acknowledge individuals or
groups who have furthered the cause of intellectual freedom in libraries, the
Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award is "[g]ranted to those who have
resisted censorship or efforts to abridge the freedom of individuals to read
or view materials of their choice, the award may be in recognition of a
particular action or long-term interest in, and dedication to, the cause of
intellectual freedom."[46]

### Eli M. Oboler Memorial Award[edit]

Since 1986, the ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table biennially sponsors the
Eli M. Oboler Memorial Award. Consisting of a $500 prize and certificate, the
award acknowledges "the best published work in the area of intellectual
freedom."[47] The IFRT posthumously named this award for Eli M. Oboler, a
former Idaho State University librarian known as a “champion of intellectual
freedom who demanded the dismantling of all barriers to freedom of
expression.”[48] Oboler, also a former member and officer in numerous
intellectual freedom organizations including the Intellectual Freedom Round
Table, the ALA Intellectual Freedom Committee, the Freedom to Read Foundation,
and the Idaho Library Association's Intellectual Freedom Committee, authored
over 200 publications, many on censorship and intellectual freedom, including:

  * _The Fear of the Word: Censorship and Sex_. Metuchen, NJ: Scarecrow Press, 1974.
  * _Ideas and the University Library: Essays of an Unorthodox Academic Librarian._ Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1977.
  * _Defending Intellectual Freedom: The Library and the Censor_. Westport, CT: Greenwood Press, 1980.
  * _To Free the Mind: Libraries, Technology, and Intellectual Freedom._ Littleton, CO: Libraries Unlimited, 1983."[49]

Awarded to acknowledge authorship in the area of intellectual freedom, the
IFRT considers "single articles (including review pieces), a series of
thematically connected articles, books, or manuals published on the local,
state or national level in English or English translation" for receipt of the
Eli M. Oboler Award.[48]

### John Phillip Immroth Memorial Award[edit]

Since 1976, the ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table annually sponsors the
John Phillip Immroth Memorial Award. Consisting of a $500 prize and a
citation, the award "honors the courage, dedication, and contribution of a
living individual, group, or organization who has set the finest kind of
example for the defense and furtherance of the principles of intellectual
freedom."[50] Upon his death in 1979, the award was renamed for John Phillip
Immroth, the founder and first Chair of the Intellectual Freedom Round
Table.[51] The Immroth award differs from other intellectual freedom awards in
that it recognizes "extraordinary personal courage in the defense of
intellectual freedom."[52]

### Gerald Hodges Intellectual Freedom Chapter Relations Award[edit]

Since 1984, the ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table annually sponsors a
regional intellectual freedom award, currently named the Gerald Hodges
Intellectual Freedom Chapter Relations Award. Consisting of a $1000 prize and
citation, the award "recognizes an intellectual freedom focused organization
that has developed a strong multi-year, ongoing program or a single, one-year
project that exemplifies support for intellectual freedom, patron
confidentiality, and anti-censorship efforts."[53] The IFRT posthumously named
this award for Gerald Hodges, a longtime ALA officer who devoted his library
career to his passion for both intellectual freedom and chapter relations
until his death in 2006.[54] In 2010 the Gerald Hodges Intellectual Freedom
Award replaced the IFRT State and Regional Intellectual Freedom Achievement
Award which had been annually awarded "to the most innovative and effective
intellectual freedom project covering a state or region."[54]

### AASL Intellectual Freedom Award[edit]

Since 1982, the American Association of School Librarians (AASL), a division
of the ALA, annually awards the Intellectual Freedom Award. Consisting of a
$2000 prize to the recipient and a $1000 prize to the school library program
of the recipient's choice, the award honors a school librarian "for upholding
the principles of intellectual freedom as set forth by the American
Association of School Librarians and the American Library Association."[55]

### Gordon M. Conable Award[edit]

Since 2007, the Public Library Association (PLA), a division of the ALA,
annually awards the Gordon M. Conable Award. Consisting of a $1500 prize and
commemorative plaque, the award "honors a public library staff member, a
library trustee, or a public library that has demonstrated a commitment to
intellectual freedom and the Library Bill of Rights."[56]

## Intellectual freedom under authoritarian rule[edit]

Intellectual freedom is often suppressed under authoritarian rule[57] and such
governments often claim to have nominal intellectual freedom, although the
degree of freedom is a matter of dispute. The former USSR, for example,
claimed to provide intellectual freedom, but some analysts in the West have
stated that the degree of intellectual freedom was nominal at best.[57][58]

## Intellectual freedom in democratic countries during times of crises[edit]

During times of crises there is often debate within democratic countries as to
the balance between national security, a successful conclusion to the crises
and the maintenance of democratic civil liberties. This debate often takes the
form of to what extent a democratic government can curtail civil liberties in
the interest of successfully ending the crises.

### Canada[edit]

Such a debate existed in Canada during the Second World War. Since the First
World War the War Measures Act had existed as legislation in Canada to allow
the government to operate with greater powers during times of national crises,
such as in wartime. During the Second World War the federal Liberal government
of Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King enacted the measure by Order-in-
Council. The War Measures Act and with it the Defence of Canada Regulations
were passed by the federal government in early September 1939. With their
implementation civil liberties, especially the intellectual freedom of
political dissenters, were curtailed.[59] As well, in Quebec the Union
Nationale government of Premier Maurice Duplessis enacted “An Act Respecting
Communist Propaganda”, which came to be known as the Padlock Act. It gave
Premier Duplesis, as Attorney General of Quebec, the power to close (hence
padlock) any premises used for the purposes of “propagating Communism or
Bolshevism.” The Act was criticized by Eugene Forsey, for example, as being
far too broad in definition and that it gave the Premier the power to suppress
any opinions that he wished to. Forsey cited examples of such abuse in the
Canadian Forum.[60]

All of these measures were criticized by writers in the Canadian Forum such as
Eugene Forsey[60] and Frank R. Scott and by the League for Social
Reconstruction in general; a group to which both Forsey and Scott belonged.
Indeed, during the Second World War the Canadian Forum printed an anonymous
monthly column outlining civil liberties abuses by Canadian authorities.[59]

### United States[edit]

In the aftermath of the September 11th attacks issues concerning the
suspension or reduction of civil liberties in the name of national security
have arisen. Legislation such as the Homeland Security Act (HSA) of 2002 and
the USA PATRIOT Act (often shortened to the Patriot Act) of 2001 encroach upon
intellectual freedom rights to privacy and freedom of information to enhance
domestic security from potential terrorist threats and acts.

The Patriot Act in particular has come under fire from numerous intellectual
freedom organizations. The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) has
criticized the Patriot Act as unconstitutional, especially when "the private
communications of law-abiding American citizens might be intercepted
incidentally,"[61] Additionally, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF)
maintains that the lower standard applied to wiretaps "gives the FBI a 'blank
check' to violate the communications privacy of countless innocent
Americans".[62] The American Library Association (ALA) has partnered with
American libraries in opposition to a provision in Section 215 which allows
the FBI to apply for an order to produce materials that assist in an
investigation undertaken to protect against international terrorism or
clandestine intelligence activities. The "tangible things" that can be
targeted include "books, records, papers, documents, and other items".[63]

## See also[edit]

  * Censorship
  * Freedom of thought
  * Information wants to be free

## References[edit]

  1. **^** . American Library Association http://www.ala.org/advocacy/intfreedom/censorshipfirstamendmentissues/ifcensorshipqanda. Retrieved  2014-08-20.  Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  2. **^** "Universal Declaration of Human Rights". UN. Retrieved  2010-04-09. 
  3. **^** "Intellectual Freedom and Censorship Q & A". ALA. Retrieved  2014-07-12. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Intellectual Freedom Manual: Eighth edition". ALA. Retrieved  2011-10-24. 
  5. **^** "ALA Intellectual Freedom Issues". ALA. Retrieved  2010-04-09. 
  6. **^** "ALA Intellectual Freedom Censorship Q and A". ALA. Retrieved  2014-08-21. 
  7. **^** _Abrams v. United States,_ 250 U.S. 616, 626 (1919)
  8. **^** "Whitney v. California," 274 U.S. 357 (1927)
  9. **^** "Olmstead v. United States," 277 U.S. 438 (1928)
  10. **^** "United States v. Schwimmer," 279 U.S. 644 (1929)
  11. **^** Human Rights Law, http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/hr_law.shtml
  12. **^** "The Universal Declaration of Human Rights", http://www.un.org/en/documents/udhr/
  13. **^** The One Un-American Act. Nieman Reports, vol. 7, no. 1 (January 1953): p. 20)
  14. **^** "IFLA Statement on Libraries and Intellectual Freedom". IFLA. Archived from the original on 2007-02-07. Retrieved  2007-03-04. 
  15. **^** "ALA Intellectual Freedom and Censorship Q & A". ALA. Retrieved  2014-07-22. 
  16. **^** "Canadian Library Association / Association canadienne des bibliothèques Position Statement on Intellectual Freedom". CLA. Archived from the original on 2008-03-03. Retrieved  2007-03-04. 
  17. **^** "ATTORNEY GENERAL STATUTES AMENDMENT ACT, 2004". BC. Retrieved  2010-04-09. 
  18. **^** Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010), p. 12-13.
  19. **^** "IFC". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-08-03. 
  20. **^** Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010), p. 409.
  21. **^** "IFC"
  22. **^** Robbins, Louise S. _Censorship and the American Library: The American Library Association's Response to Threats to Intellectual Freedom, 1939-1969'.' (Westport, CN: Greenwood Press, 1996). p. 16_
  23. **^** Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010), p. 23.
  24. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "ALA Offices". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-07-20. 
  25. **^** "Banned Books Week". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-07-20. 
  26. **^** "Frequently Challenged Books". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-07-20. 
  27. **^** "Newsletter on Intellectual Freedom". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-07-20. 
  28. **^** "Intellectual Freedom Action Network". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-07-20. 
  29. **^** "Intellectual Freedom Action Network"
  30. **^** "Webinars". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-07-20. 
  31. **^** "IFRT". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  32. **^** Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010), p. 411.
  33. **^** "About FTRF". Freedom to Read Foundation. Retrieved  2014-08-03. 
  34. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "About FTRF"
  35. **^** Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010), p. 412.
  36. **^** Robbins, p.158
  37. **^** Asheim, Lester. "Not Censorship but Selection," _WLB_ 28 (September 1953): 67.
  38. **^** "Merritt Fund". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-08-19. 
  39. **^** Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010), p. 27
  40. **^** "Merritt Fund"
  41. **^** "LeRoy C. Merritt". American Library Association. Retrieved 2014-08-019.   Check date values in: `|access-date=` (help)
  42. **^** Fourie, Ian (2008). Intellectual Freedom Manual 7th ed. Collection Building, 27(2), p. 91. Emerald Group Publishing Limited.
  43. **^** http://www.ala.org/advocacy/intfreedom/librarybill/interpretations/privacy
  44. **^** "Downs Award". University of Illinois Graduate School of Library and Information Science. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  45. **^** Donald G. Davis, (2003). Dictionary of American Library Biography: Second Supplement, Libraries Unlimited.
  46. **^** "Downs Award"
  47. **^** "Oboler Award". American Library Association. Archived from the original on 2014-08-18. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  48. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Oboler Award"
  49. **^** "Eli M. Oboler Bio". Idaho State University. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  50. **^** "Immroth Award". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  51. **^** "Immroth Award"
  52. **^** Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual_ , (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010), p. 410.
  53. **^** "Hodges Award". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  54. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Hodges Award"
  55. **^** "AASL Intellectual Freedom Award". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  56. **^** "Gordon M Conable Award". American Library Association. Retrieved  2014-08-13. 
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Beard, Charles A.; Mary R. Beard (1944). "XXVIII Global War and Home Front". _A Basic History of the United States_. New York: Doubleday, Doran  & Co. p. 488. 
  58. **^** Charen, Mona (2003). _Useful Idiots: How Liberals Got It Wrong in the Cold War and Still Blame America First_. Regnery Publishing. ISBN 0-89526-139-1.  
  59. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Horn, Michiel, The League for Social Reconstruction: Intellectual Origins of the Democratic Left in Canada 1930-1942. Toronto: U of Toronto Press, 1980. p. 171
  60. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Milligan, Frank, Eugene A. Forsey: An Intellectual Biography. Calgary: U of Calgary Press, 2004. p. 139
  61. **^** "Analysis of Specific USA PATRIOT Act Provisions: Expanded Dissemination of Information Obtained in Criminal Investigations". Electronic Privacy Information Center. Retrieved  2014-08-22. 
  62. **^** "Let the Sun Set on PATRIOT - Section 206". Electronic Frontier Foundation. Archived from the original on 2005-05-24. Retrieved  2014-08-22. 
  63. **^** USA PATRIOT Act (U.S. H.R. 3162, Public Law 107-56), Title II, Sec. 215.

## Further reading[edit]

  * Alfino, Mark and Laura Koltutsky. "The Library Juice Press Handbook of Intellectual Freedom: Concepts, Cases, and Theories." (Sacramento: Library Juice Press, 2014). ISBN 978-1-936117-57-4.
  * Lewis, Anthony. _Freedom for the Thought We Hate_. (New York: Basic Books, 2007). ISBN 0-465-03917-0.
  * Office for Intellectual Freedom of the American Library Association. _Intellectual Freedom Manual, 8th ed._ (Chicago: American Library Association, 2010). ISBN 978-0-8389-3590-3.
  * Robbins, Louise S. _Censorship and the American Library: The American Library Association's Response to Threats to Intellectual Freedom 1939-1969._ (Westport, Connecticut: Greenwood Press, 1996). ISBN 0-313-29644-8.
  * Sakharov, Andrei, _Progress, Coëxistence, and Intellectual Freedom_. Trans. by [staff of] _The New York Times_ ; with introd., afterword, and notes by Harrison E. Salisbury. (New York: W.W. Norton & Co., 1968).

## External links[edit]

  * Universal Declaration of Human Rights
  * International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions Statement on Libraries and Intellectual Freedom
  * American Library Association Intellectual Freedom and Censorship Q & A
  * Canadian Library Association Position Statement on Intellectual Freedom
  * International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions Collection of Statements on Intellectual Freedom adopted by National Library Associations

  * v
  * t
  * e

Liberty  
  
---  
Concepts |

  * Positive liberty
  * Negative liberty
  * Cognitive liberty
  * Social liberty
  * Rights
  * Free will
  * Moral responsibility
  * Goddess of Liberty

  
  
By type |

  * Academic
  * Civil
  * Economic
  * Intellectual
  * Morphological
  * Political

  
  
By right |

  * Assembly
  * Association
  * Choice
  * Education
  * Information
  * Movement
  * Press
  * Religion
  * Public speech
  * Thought

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

American Library Association  
  
---  
Founders |

  * Justin Winsor
  * Charles Ammi Cutter
  * Samuel S. Green
  * James L. Whitney
  * Melvil Dewey
  * Fred B. Perkins
  * Thomas W. Bicknell

  
  
Notable  
divisions |

  * American Association of School Librarians (AASL)
  * Association for Library Collections and Technical Services (ALCTS)
  * Association for Library Service to Children (ALSC)
  * Association of College and Research Libraries (ACRL)
  * Association of Specialized and Cooperative Library Agencies (ASCLA)
  * Library Information Technology Association (LITA)
  * Public Library Association (PLA)
  * Reference and User Services Association (RUSA)
  * Young Adult Library Services Association (YALSA)

  
  
Magazines |

  * _American Libraries_
  * _Booklist_
  * _Children and Libraries_
  * _Choice_
  * _College& Research Libraries_
  * _Public Libraries_
  * _Young Adult Library Services_

  
  
Literary  
awards and  
honors |

|  Books for adults |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Dartmouth
  * Stonewall
  * Brody
  * Gleason library history

  
  
---|---  
For children and  
young adults |

  * Newbery
  * Caldecott
  * Wilder
  * Arbuthnot
  * Geisel
  * Batchelder
  * Belpré
  * King
  * Stonewall
  * Schneider
  * Sibert
  * Odyssey (audio)
  * Carnegie (video)
  * Nonfiction YA
  * Printz
  * Edwards
  * Morris

  
  
---|---  
Book lists |

  * ALA Notable Books
  * Alex Awards
  * Best Books for Young Adults
  * Outstanding Academic Title
  * Outstanding Reference Sources

  
  
---|---  
Related |

  * Presidents of the ALA
  * ALA accredited library schools
  * Banned Books Week
  * Freedom to Read Foundation
  * Library Bill of Rights
  * _United States v. American Library Ass'n_

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Intellectual_freedom&oldid=813678759"

Categories:

  * Library science
  * Freedom of expression

Hidden categories:

  * Pages with citations lacking titles
  * Pages with citations having bare URLs
  * CS1 errors: dates

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * فارسی
  * മലയാളം
  * Norsk
  * Português
  * Українська
  * اردو

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 4 December 2017, at 18:08.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

