

# Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Not to be confused with Islamic state or Islamic republic.

"ISIL", "ISIS", "Daish", "Daesh", and "Islamic State group" redirect here. For
other uses, see ISIL (disambiguation), ISIS (disambiguation), Daish
(disambiguation), and Islamic state (disambiguation).

|

This article **may betoo long to read and navigate comfortably**. The readable
prose size is 105 kilobytes.  Please consider splitting content into sub-
articles, condensing it, or adding or removing subheadings. _(June 2017)_  
  
---|---  
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant  
---  
  
الدولة الإسلامية في العراق والشام‎  
_ad-Dawlah al-Islāmiyah fī 'l-ʿIrāq wa-sh-Shām_  
Participant in the Iraq War (2003–2011), Iraqi insurgency, Syrian Civil War,
Iraqi Civil War, Second Libyan Civil War, Boko Haram insurgency, War in North-
West Pakistan, War in Afghanistan, Yemeni Civil War, and other conflicts

* * *

Primary target of Operation Inherent Resolve and of the military intervention
against ISIL: in Syria, Iraq, Libya, and Nigeria.  
  
The Black Standard used by ISIL[1]  
  
Active |

1999 – present

  * Established under the name of Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad: 1999
  * Joined al-Qaeda: October 2004
  * Declaration of an Islamic state in Iraq: 13 October 2006
  * Claim of territory in the Levant: 8 April 2013
  * Separated from al-Qaeda:[2][3] 3 February 2014[4]
  * Declaration of caliphate: 29 June 2014
  * Claim of territory in: 
    * Libya, Egypt, Algeria, Saudi Arabia, Yemen: 13 November 2014
    * South Asia: 29 January 2015[5]
    * Nigeria: 12 March 2015[6][7]
    * North Caucasus: 23 June 2015[8]
    * Recapture of Mosul by Iraqi forces: 21 July 2017
    * Recapture of Raqqa by SDF forces: 17 October 2017

  
  
Ideology |

  * Caliphatism
  * Salafism[9][10][11]
  * Salafi jihadism[11][12]
  * Wahhabism[12][13]
  * Anti-Zionism[14][15]
  * Antisemitism[16][17][18][19]  
Anti-Christian

  
  
Groups |

  * Libyan Province
  * Sinai Province
  * Yemen Province
  * Algerian Province
  * Khorasan Province
  * West Africa Province
  * Caucasus Province
  * Somalia group

  
Leaders |

  * **Leader** : Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi[20]
  * **Deputy leader in Iraq** : Abu Fatima al-Jaheishi[21]
  * **Deputy leader in Syria** : Abu Ali al-Anbari  **†**[22][23]
  * **Deputy leader in Libya** : Abdel Baqer Al-Najdi[24]
  * **Military chief** : Abu Saleh al-Obaidi[25]
  * **Head of the Shura Council** : Abu Arkan al-Ameri[26]
  * **Chief spokesperson** : Abu Mohammad al-Adnani  **†**[27][28][29][30][31]
  * **Chief of Syrian military operations** : Abu Omar al-Shishani  **†**[28][32][33][34][35]
  * **Minister of War** : Gulmurod Khalimov [36]
  * **Minister of Information** : Wa’il Adil Hasan Salman al-Fayad  **†**[37]
  * **Spokesman** : Abul-Hasan Al-Muhajir (foreign fighter)

  
Headquarters |

  * Baqubah, Iraq (2006–2007)
  * _No central headquarters_ (2007–2013)
  * Raqqa, Syria (2013–2017)
  * Mayadin, Syria (June–October 2017)[38][39]
  * Al-Qa'im, Iraq (October–November 2017)[40]
  * Abu Kamal, Syria (November 2017)[41][42]
  * Rawa, Iraq (8–17 November 2017)[43]
  * _No central headquarters_ (17 November 2017–present)

  
  
Size |

List of combatant numbers

  * Inside Syria and Iraq: 

    * 200,000[44] (Kurdish claim in 2014)
    * 100,000[45] (Jihadist claim in 2015)
    * 20,000–31,000[46] (CIA estimate in 2014)
    * 19,000–25,000[47][48] (CIA estimate in early 2016)
    * 6,500 (U.S. military estimate in October 2017)[49]

  * Outside Syria and Iraq: 32,600–57,900 (See Military of ISIL for more detailed estimates.)
  * Estimated total: 39,100 – 257,900

Civilian population

  * In 2015 (near max extent): 6 million[50]

  
  
Originated as | Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad (1999)[51]  
Opponents |

**State opponents**

  *  Australia[52]
  *  China[53]
  *  Denmark
  *  Netherlands
  *  Belgium
  *  France
  *  India
  *  Iran
  *  Iraq
  *  Lebanon
  *  Russia
  *  Saudi Arabia
  *  Pakistan[54]
  *  Libya
  *  Egypt
  *  Syria
  *  Turkey
  *  Afghanistan
  *  United Kingdom
  *  United States

**Non-state opponents**

  * Syrian Democratic Forces
  * Hezbollah
  * Peshmerga
  * Kurdistan Communities Union
  * Free Syrian Army
  * Ahrar al-Sham
  * Al-Nusra Front (Tahrir al-Sham since 2017)
  * Libya Shield Force
  * Shura Council of Mujahideen in Derna
  * Taliban
  * Army of Conquest (2015–17)

  
  
The **Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant** ( **ISIL** , IPA: /ˈaɪsəl/), also
known as the **Islamic State of Iraq and Syria**[note 1] ( **ISIS** /
ˈaɪsɪs/),[55] **Islamic State** ( **IS** ) and by its Arabic language acronym
**Daesh** (Arabic:  داعش‎ _dāʿish_ , IPA: [ˈdaːʕɪʃ]),[56][57] is a Salafi
jihadist militant group and former unrecognised proto-state that follows a
fundamentalist, Wahhabi, and heterodox[58] doctrine of Sunni Islam.[59][60]
ISIL gained global prominence in early 2014 when it drove Iraqi government
forces out of key cities in its Western Iraq offensive,[61] followed by its
capture of Mosul[62] and the Sinjar massacre.[63]

This group has been designated a terrorist organisation by the United Nations
and many individual countries. ISIL is widely known for its videos of
beheadings and other types of executions[64] of both soldiers and civilians,
including journalists and aid workers, and its destruction of cultural
heritage sites.[65] The United Nations holds ISIL responsible for human rights
abuses and war crimes and Amnesty International has charged the group with
ethnic cleansing on a "historic scale" in northern Iraq.[66]

ISIL originated as _Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad_ in 1999, which pledged
allegiance to al-Qaeda and participated in the Iraqi insurgency following the
2003 invasion of Iraq by Western forces. The group proclaimed itself a
worldwide caliphate[67][68] and began referring to itself as the Islamic State
( الدولة الإسلامية _ad-Dawlah al-Islāmiyah_ ) or IS[69] in June 2014. As a
caliphate, it claims religious, political and military authority over all
Muslims worldwide.[70] Its adoption of the name Islamic State and its idea of
a caliphate have been widely criticised, with the United Nations, various
governments and mainstream Muslim groups rejecting its statehood.[71]

In Syria, the group conducted ground attacks on both government forces and
opposition factions and by December 2015 it held a large area in western Iraq
and eastern Syria containing an estimated 2.8 to 8 million people,[72][73]
where it enforced its heterodox[58] interpretation of sharia law. ISIL is now
believed to be operational in 18 countries across the world, including
Afghanistan and Pakistan, with "aspiring branches" in Mali, Egypt, Somalia,
Bangladesh, Indonesia and the Philippines.[74][75][76][77] As of 2015, ISIL
was estimated to have an annual budget of more than US$1 billion and a force
of more than 30,000 fighters.[78]

In July 2017, the group lost control of its largest city, Mosul, to the Iraqi
army.[79] Following this major defeat, ISIL continued to lose territory to the
various states and other military forces allied against it, until it
controlled no meaningful territory by November 2017.[80]

## Contents

  * 1 Name
  * 2 Purpose and strategy
    * 2.1 Ideology
    * 2.2 Islamic eschatology
    * 2.3 Goals
    * 2.4 Strategy
  * 3 Organisation
    * 3.1 Leadership and governance
    * 3.2 Civilians in ISIL-controlled areas
    * 3.3 Military
      * 3.3.1 Number of combatants
      * 3.3.2 Conventional weapons
      * 3.3.3 Non-conventional weapons
    * 3.4 Non-combatant recruits
    * 3.5 Communications
      * 3.5.1 Propaganda
      * 3.5.2 Traditional media
      * 3.5.3 Social media
    * 3.6 Finances
      * 3.6.1 Monetary system
  * 4 History
    * 4.1 Foundation (1999–2006)
    * 4.2 Islamic State of Iraq (2006–2013)
      * 4.2.1 Syrian Civil War
    * 4.3 Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (2013–2014)
    * 4.4 Islamic State (2014–present)
      * 4.4.1 Capture of territory
      * 4.4.2 Loss of territory and declarations of victory by opponents
    * 4.5 Terrorist attacks outside Iraq and Syria
      * 4.5.1 Mass killings
    * 4.6 Timeline of events
  * 5 Territorial control and claims
    * 5.1 Iraq and Syria
    * 5.2 Libyan Provinces
    * 5.3 Sinai Province
    * 5.4 Algerian Province
    * 5.5 Khorasan Province
    * 5.6 Yemen Provinces
    * 5.7 West African Province
    * 5.8 North Caucasus Province
    * 5.9 Southeast Asia
    * 5.10 Islamic State in Gaza
    * 5.11 Other areas of operation
  * 6 International reaction
    * 6.1 Classification as a terrorist organisation
    * 6.2 International criticism
    * 6.3 Islamic criticism
      * 6.3.1 Designation as a terrorist organisation
      * 6.3.2 Militia, territorial authority and other classifications
  * 7 Supporters
    * 7.1 Allegations of state support
      * 7.1.1 Saudi Arabia
      * 7.1.2 Syria
      * 7.1.3 Turkey
      * 7.1.4 Qatar
      * 7.1.5 United States
      * 7.1.6 Foreign nationals
      * 7.1.7 Groups expressing support for ISIL
    * 7.2 Countries and groups at war with ISIL
    * 7.3 The Global Coalition to Counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
      * 7.3.1 Other state opponents not part of the Counter-ISIL Coalition
      * 7.3.2 Other non-state opponents
      * 7.3.3 Al-Qaeda
  * 8 Human rights abuse and war crime findings
    * 8.1 Religious and minority group persecution
    * 8.2 Treatment of civilians
    * 8.3 Child soldiers
    * 8.4 Sexual violence and slavery
    * 8.5 Attacks on members of the press
    * 8.6 Beheadings and mass executions
    * 8.7 Use of chemical weapons
    * 8.8 Destruction of cultural and religious heritage
  * 9 See also
  * 10 Notes
  * 11 References
  * 12 Bibliography
  * 13 External links

## Name

Main article: Names of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

See also: Name changes due to the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

In April 2013, having expanded into Syria, the group adopted the name _ad-
Dawlah al-Islāmiyah fī 'l-ʿIrāq wa-sh-Shām_ ( الدولة الإسلامية في العراق
والشام‎). As _al-Shām_ is a region often compared with the Levant or Greater
Syria, the group's name has been variously translated as "Islamic State of
Iraq and al-Sham",[81] "Islamic State of Iraq and Syria"[82] (both abbreviated
as ISIS), or "Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant" (abbreviated as ISIL).[55]

While the use of either one or the other acronym has been the subject of
debate,[55][83] the distinction between the two and its relevance has been
considered not so great.[55] Of greater relevance is the name Daesh, which is
an acronym of ISIL's Arabic name _al-Dawlah al-Islamīyah fī l-ʻIrāq wa-sh-
Shām._ _Dāʿish_ ( داعش‎), or Daesh. This name has been widely used by ISIL's
Arabic-speaking detractors,[ _clarification needed_ ][84][85] although – and
to a certain extent because – it is considered derogatory, as it resembles the
Arabic words _Daes_ (lit. "one who crushes, or tramples down, something
underfoot") and _Dāhis_ (loosely translated: "one who sows discord").[56][86]
Within areas under its control, ISIL considers use of the name Daesh
punishable by flogging[87] or cutting out the tongue.[88]

In late June 2014, the group renamed itself _ad-Dawlah al-Islāmiyah_ ( lit.
Islamic State or _IS_ ), declaring itself a worldwide caliphate.[68] The name
"Islamic State" and the group's claim to be a caliphate have been widely
rejected, with the UN, various governments, and mainstream Muslim groups
refusing to use the new name.[89][90] The group's declaration of a new
caliphate in June 2014 and its adoption of the name "Islamic State" have been
criticised and ridiculed by Muslim scholars and rival Islamists both inside
and outside the territory it controls.[89][91]

In a speech in September 2014, United States President Barack Obama said that
ISIL is neither "Islamic" (on the basis that no religion condones the killing
of innocents) nor is it a "state" (in that no government recognises the group
as a state),[92] while many object to using the name "Islamic State" owing to
the far-reaching religious and political claims to authority which that name
implies. The United Nations Security Council,[93] the United States,[92]
Canada,[94] Turkey,[95] Australia,[96] Russia,[97] the United Kingdom[98] and
other countries generally call the group "ISIL", while much of the Arab world
uses the Arabic acronym "Dāʻish" (or "Daesh"). France's Foreign Minister
Laurent Fabius said "This is a terrorist group and not a state. I do not
recommend using the term Islamic State because it blurs the lines between
Islam, Muslims, and Islamists. The Arabs call it 'Daesh' and I will be calling
them the 'Daesh cutthroats.'"[99] Retired general John Allen, the U.S. envoy
appointed to co-ordinate the coalition; U.S. Army Lieutenant General James
Terry, head of operations against the group; and Secretary of State John Kerry
had all shifted towards use of the term DAESH by December 2014.[100]

## Purpose and strategy

### Ideology

Main article: Ideology of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

ISIL is a theocracy, proto-state[101][102][103] and a Salafi or Wahhabi
group.[12][104][105] It follows an heterodox[58] interpretation of Islam,
promotes religious violence, and regards Muslims who do not agree with its
interpretations as infidels or apostates.[9] According to Hayder al Khoei,
ISIL's philosophy is represented by the symbolism in the Black Standard
variant of the legendary battle flag of Prophet Muhammad that it has adopted:
the flag shows the Seal of Muhammad within a white circle, with the phrase
above it, "There is no god but Allah".[106] Such symbolism has been said to
point to ISIL's belief that it represents the restoration of the caliphate of
early Islam, with all the political, religious and eschatological
ramifications that this would imply.[107]

According to some observers, ISIL emerged from the ideology of the Muslim
Brotherhood, the first post-Ottoman Islamist group dating back to the late
1920s in Egypt.[108] It adheres to global jihadist principles and follows the
hard-line ideology of al-Qaeda and many other modern-day jihadist
groups.[4][9] However, other sources trace the group's roots to Wahhabism.

> For their guiding principles, the leaders of the Islamic State ... are open
and clear about their almost exclusive commitment to the Wahhabi movement of
Sunni Islam. The group circulates images of Wahhabi religious textbooks from
Saudi Arabia in the schools it controls. Videos from the group's territory
have shown Wahhabi texts plastered on the sides of an official missionary van.

>

> — David D. Kirkpatrick, _The New York Times_[13]

According to _The Economist_ , dissidents in the former ISIL capital of Raqqa
report that "all 12 of the judges who now run its court system ... are
Saudis". Saudi practices also followed by the group include the establishment
of religious police to root out "vice" and enforce attendance at salat
prayers, the widespread use of capital punishment, and the destruction or re-
purposing of any non-Sunni religious buildings.[109] Bernard Haykel has
described ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi's creed as "a kind of untamed
Wahhabism".[13] Senior Saudi religious leaders have issued statements
condemning ISIL[110] and attempting to distance the group from official Saudi
religious beliefs.[111]

ISIL aims to return to the early days of Islam, rejecting all innovations in
the religion, which it believes corrupts its original spirit. It condemns
later caliphates and the Ottoman Empire for deviating from what it calls pure
Islam, and seeks to revive the original Wahhabi project of the restoration of
the caliphate governed by strict Salafist doctrine. Following Salafi-Wahhabi
tradition, ISIL condemns the followers of secular law as disbelievers, putting
the current Saudi Arabian government in that category.[59]

Salafists such as ISIL believe that only a legitimate authority can undertake
the leadership of jihad, and that the first priority over other areas of
combat, such as fighting non-Muslim countries, is the purification of Islamic
society. For example, ISIL regards the Palestinian Sunni group Hamas as
apostates who have no legitimate authority to lead jihad and see fighting
Hamas as the first step toward confrontation by ISIL with Israel.[13][112]

### Islamic eschatology

See also: Islamic eschatology

One difference between ISIL and other Islamist and jihadist movements,
including al-Qaeda, is the group's emphasis on eschatology and apocalypticism
– that is, a belief in a final Day of Judgment by God, and specifically, a
belief that the arrival of one known as Imam Mahdi is near. ISIL believes that
it will defeat the army of "Rome" at the town of Dabiq, in fulfilment of
prophecy.[113] Following its interpretation of the Hadith of the Twelve
Successors, ISIL also believes that after al-Baghdadi there will be only four
more legitimate caliphs.[113]

The noted scholar of militant Islamism William McCants writes:

> References to the End Times fill Islamic State propaganda. It's a big
selling point with foreign fighters, who want to travel to the lands where the
final battles of the apocalypse will take place. The civil wars raging in
those countries today [Iraq and Syria] lend credibility to the prophecies. The
Islamic State has stoked the apocalyptic fire. [...] For Bin Laden's
generation, the apocalypse wasn't a great recruiting pitch. Governments in the
Middle East two decades ago were more stable, and sectarianism was more
subdued. It was better to recruit by calling to arms against corruption and
tyranny than against the Antichrist. Today, though, the apocalyptic recruiting
pitch makes more sense than before.

>

> —  _The ISIS Apocalypse: The History, Strategy, and Doomsday Vision of the
Islamic State_[114]

###  Goals

Since at least 2004, a significant goal of the group has been the foundation
of a Sunni Islamic state.[115][116] Specifically, ISIL has sought to establish
itself as a caliphate, an Islamic state led by a group of religious
authorities under a supreme leader – the caliph – who is believed to be the
successor to Prophet Muhammad.[117] In June 2014, ISIL published a document in
which it claimed to have traced the lineage of its leader al-Baghdadi back to
Muhammad,[117] and upon proclaiming a new caliphate on 29 June, the group
appointed al-Baghdadi as its caliph. As caliph, he demands the allegiance of
all devout Muslims worldwide, according to Islamic jurisprudence ( _fiqh_
).[118]

ISIL has detailed its goals in its _Dabiq_ magazine, saying it will continue
to seize land and take over the entire Earth until its:

> Blessed flag...covers all eastern and western extents of the Earth, filling
the world with the truth and justice of Islam and putting an end to the
falsehood and tyranny of jahiliyyah [state of ignorance], even if American and
its coalition despise such.

>

> — 5th edition of _Dabiq_ , the Islamic State's English-language magazine
[119]

According to German journalist Jürgen Todenhöfer, who spent ten days embedded
with ISIL in Mosul, the view he kept hearing was that ISIL wants to "conquer
the world", and that all who do not believe in the group's interpretation of
the Quran will be killed. Todenhöfer was struck by the ISIL fighters' belief
that "all religions who agree with democracy have to die",[120] and by their
"incredible enthusiasm" – including enthusiasm for killing "hundreds of
millions" of people.[121]

When the caliphate was proclaimed, ISIL stated: "The legality of all emirates,
groups, states and organisations becomes null by the expansion of the
khilafah's [caliphate's] authority and arrival of its troops to their
areas."[117] This was a rejection of the political divisions in Southwestern
Asia that were established by the UK and France during World War I in the
Sykes–Picot Agreement.[122][123][124]

All non-Muslim areas would be targeted for conquest after the Muslim lands
were dealt with, according to the Islamist manual _Management of
Savagery_.[125][126][127]

###  Strategy

Documents found after the death of Samir Abd Muhammad al-Khlifawi, a former
colonel in the intelligence service of the Iraqi Air Force before the US
invasion who had been described as "the strategic head" of ISIL, detailed
planning for the ISIL takeover of northern Syria which made possible "the
group's later advances into Iraq". Al-Khlifawi called for the infiltration of
areas to be conquered with spies who would find out "as much as possible about
the target towns: Who lived there, who was in charge, which families were
religious, which Islamic school of religious jurisprudence they belonged to,
how many mosques there were, who the imam was, how many wives and children he
had and how old they were". Following this surveillance and espionage would
come murder and kidnapping – "the elimination of every person who might have
been a potential leader or opponent". In Raqqa, after rebel forces drove out
the Assad regime and ISIL infiltrated the town, "first dozens and then
hundreds of people disappeared". [128]

Security and intelligence expert Martin Reardon has described ISIL's purpose
as being to psychologically "break" those under its control, "[...] so as to
ensure their absolute allegiance through fear and intimidation," while
generating, "[...]outright hate and vengeance" among its enemies.[129] Jason
Burke, a journalist writing on Salafi jihadism, has written that ISIL's goal
is to "terrorize, mobilize [and] polarize".[130][131] Its efforts to terrorise
are intended to intimidate civilian populations and force governments of the
target enemy "to make rash decisions that they otherwise would not choose". It
aims to mobilise its supporters by motivating them with, for example,
spectacular deadly attacks deep in Western territory (such as the November
2015 Paris attacks), to polarise by driving Muslim populations – particularly
in the West – away from their governments, thus increasing the appeal of
ISIL's self-proclaimed caliphate among them, and to: "Eliminate neutral
parties through either absorption or elimination".[130][132] Journalist
Rukmini Maria Callimachi also emphasises ISIL's interest in polarization or in
eliminating what it calls the "grey zone" between the black (non-Muslims) and
white (ISIL). "The gray is moderate Muslims who are living in the West and are
happy and feel engaged in the society here."[133]

A work published online in 2004 entitled _Management of Savagery_[134] (
_Idarat at Tawahoush_ ), described by several media outlets as influential on
ISIL[135][136][137] and intended to provide a strategy to create a new Islamic
caliphate,[138] recommended a strategy of attack outside its territory in
which fighters would, "Diversify and widen the vexation strikes against the
Crusader-Zionist enemy in every place in the Islamic world, and even outside
of it if possible, so as to disperse the efforts of the alliance of the enemy
and thus drain it to the greatest extent possible."[139]

The group has been accused of attempting to "bolster morale" and distract
attention from its loss of territory to enemies by staging terror attacks
abroad (such as the 6 June 2017 attacks on Tehran, the May 22, 2017 bombing in
Manchester, UK, and the 3 June 2017 attacks in London that ISIL claimed credit
for).[140] Change-point analyses show that the rate of ISIL terror attacks has
decreased significantly since the February 19, 2017 [141] American bombing in
Libya that resulted in the death of Noureddine Chouchane but the mean number
of fatalities for each attack increased giving further credence to the morale
boosting accusations.[142]

## Organisation

Raqqa in Syria had been under ISIL control since 2013 and in 2014 it became
the group's _de facto_ capital city.[143]

###  Leadership and governance

Further information: List of Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant members

Mugshot of al-Baghdadi by US armed forces while in detention at Camp Bucca in
2004

ISIL is headed and run by Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi. Before their deaths, he had
two deputy leaders, Abu Muslim al-Turkmani for Iraq and Abu Ali al-Anbari
(also known as Abu Ala al-Afri)[144] for Syria, both ethnic Turkmen. Advising
al-Baghdadi is a cabinet of senior leaders, while its operations in Iraq and
Syria are controlled by local governors.[145][146] Beneath the leaders are
councils on finance, leadership, military matters, legal matters (including
decisions on executions) foreign fighters' assistance, security, intelligence
and media. In addition, a shura council has the task of ensuring that all
decisions made by the governors and councils comply with the group's
heterodox[58] interpretation of sharia.[147] While al-Baghdadi has told
followers to "advise me when I err" in sermons, according to observers "any
threat, opposition, or even contradiction is instantly eradicated".[148]

According to Iraqis, Syrians and analysts who study the group, almost all of
ISIL's leaders—including the members of its military and security committees
and the majority of its emirs and princes—are former Iraqi military and
intelligence officers, specifically former members of Saddam Hussein's Ba'ath
government who lost their jobs and pensions in the de-Ba'athification process
after that regime was overthrown.[149][150][151] The former Chief Strategist
in the Office of the Coordinator for Counterterrorism of the US State
Department, David Kilcullen, has said that "There undeniably would be no Isis
if we had not invaded Iraq."[152] It has been reported that Iraqis and Syrians
have been given greater precedence over other nationalities within ISIL
because the group needs the loyalties of the local Sunni populations in both
Syria and Iraq in order to be sustainable.[153][154] Other reports, however,
have indicated that Syrians are at a disadvantage to foreign members, with
some native Syrian fighters resenting "favouritism" allegedly shown towards
foreigners over pay and accommodation.[155][156]

In August 2016, media reports based on briefings by Western intelligence
agencies suggested that ISIL had a multilevel secret service known in Arabic
as Emni, established in 2014, that has become a combination of an internal
police force and an external operations directorate complete with regional
branches. The unit was believed to be under the overall command of ISIL's most
senior Syrian operative, spokesman and propaganda chief Abu Mohammad al-
Adnani[157][158] until his death by airstrike in late August 2016.[27]

### Civilians in ISIL-controlled areas

Main article: Human rights in ISIL-controlled territory

In 2014 _The Wall Street Journal_ estimated that eight million people lived in
the Islamic State.[159] The United Nations Commission on Human Rights has
stated that ISIL "seeks to subjugate civilians under its control and dominate
every aspect of their lives through terror, indoctrination, and the provision
of services to those who obey".[160] Civilians, as well as the Islamic State
itself, have released footage of some of the human rights abuses.[161][162]

Social control of civilians is by imposition of ISIL's reading of sharia
law,[163] enforced by morality police forces known as _Al-Hisbah_ and the all-
women Al-Khanssaa Brigade, a general police force, courts, and other _entities
managing recruitment, tribal relations, and education_.[160] _Al-Hisbah_ is
led by Abu Muhammad al-Jazrawi.[164]

###  Military

Main articles: Military of ISIL and Military equipment of ISIL

#### Number of combatants

Country origins of ISIL fighters (500 or more)[165] Country | Population  
---|---  
Tunisia |

5,000  
  
Saudi Arabia |

2,500  
  
Russia |

2,400  
  
France |

2,000  
  
Jordan |

2,000  
  
Morocco |

1,500  
  
Turkey |

1,400  
  
Lebanon |

900  
  
Germany |

700  
  
Libya |

600  
  
United Kingdom |

600  
  
Indonesia |

500  
  
Uzbekistan |

500  
  
Pakistan |

500  
  
Estimates of the size of ISIL's military vary widely, from tens of
thousands[166] up to 200,000.[44] In early 2015, journalist Mary Anne Weaver
estimated that half of ISIL fighters are foreigners.[167] A UN report
estimated a total of 15,000 fighters from over 80 countries were in ISIL's
ranks in November 2014.[168] US intelligence estimated an increase to around
20,000 foreign fighters in February 2015, including 3,400 from the Western
world.[169] In September 2015, the CIA estimated that 30,000 foreign fighters
had joined ISIL.[170]

According to Abu Hajjar, a former senior leader of ISIL, foreign fighters
receive food, petrol and housing, but unlike native Iraqi or Syrian fighters,
they do not receive payment in wages.[171]

#### Conventional weapons

ISIL relies mostly on captured weapons with major sources including Saddam
Hussein's Iraqi stockpiles from the 2003–11 Iraq insurgency[172] and weapons
from government and opposition forces fighting in the Syrian Civil War and
during the post-US withdrawal Iraqi insurgency. The captured weapons,
including armour, guns, surface-to-air missiles, and even some aircraft,
enabled rapid territorial growth and facilitated the capture of additional
equipment.[173] For example, ISIL captured US-made TOW anti-tank missiles
supplied by the United States and Saudi Arabia to the Free Syrian Army in
Syria.[174][175]

#### Non-conventional weapons

The group uses truck and car bombs, suicide bombers and IEDs, and has used
chemical weapons in Iraq and Syria.[176] ISIL captured nuclear materials from
Mosul University in July 2014, but is unlikely to be able to convert them into
weapons.[177][178] In September 2015 a US official stated that ISIL was
manufacturing and using mustard agent in Syria and Iraq, and had an active
chemical weapons research team.[179][180] ISIL has also used water as a weapon
of war. The group closed the gates of the smaller Nuaimiyah dam in Fallujah in
April 2014, flooding the surrounding regions, while cutting the water supply
to the Shia-dominated south. Around 12,000 families lost their homes and 200
km² of villages and fields were either flooded or dried up. The economy of the
region also suffered with destruction of cropland and electricity
shortages.[181]

During the Battle of Mosul it was reported that commercially available
quadcopters and drones were being used by ISIL as surveillance and weapons
delivery platforms using extemporised cradles to drop grenades and other
explosives.[182] The ISIL drone facility became a target of Royal Air Force
strike aircraft.[183]

### Non-combatant recruits

Although ISIL attracts followers from different parts of the world by
promoting the image of holy war, not all of its recruits end up in combatant
roles. There have been several cases of new recruits expecting to be
_mujahideen_ who have returned from Syria disappointed by the everyday jobs
that were assigned to them, such as drawing water or cleaning toilets, or by
the ban imposed on use of mobile phones during military training
sessions.[184]

ISIL publishes material directed at women. Although women are not allowed to
take up arms, media groups encourage them to play supportive roles within
ISIL, such as providing first aid, cooking, nursing and sewing skills, in
order to become "good wives of jihad".[185] In a document entitled _Women in
the Islamic State: Manifesto and Case Study_ released by the media wing of
ISIL's all-female Al-Khanssaa Brigade, emphasis is given to the paramount
importance of marriage and motherhood (as early as nine years old). Women
should live a life of "sedentariness", fulfilling her "divine duty of
motherhood" at home, with a few exceptions like teachers and
doctors.[186][187] Equality for women is opposed, as is education on non-
religious subjects, the "worthless worldly sciences".[187]

###  Communications

#### Propaganda

ISIL is known for its extensive and effective use of propaganda.[188][189] It
uses a version of the Muslim Black Standard flag and developed an emblem which
has clear symbolic meaning in the Muslim world.[106]

#### Traditional media

In November 2006, shortly after the group's rebranding as the "Islamic State
of Iraq", it established the Al-Furqan Foundation for Media Production, which
produces CDs, DVDs, posters, pamphlets, and web-related propaganda products
and official statements.[190] It began to expand its media presence in 2013,
with the formation of a second media wing, Al-I'tisam Media Foundation, in
March[191][192] and the Ajnad Foundation for Media Production, specialising in
nasheeds and audio content, in August.[193] In mid-2014, ISIL established the
Al-Hayat Media Center, which targets Western audiences and produces material
in English, German, Russian and French.[194][195] When ISIL announced its
expansion to other countries in November 2014 it established media departments
for the new branches, and its media apparatus ensured that the new branches
follow the same models it uses in Iraq and Syria.[196] Then FBI Director James
Comey said that ISIL's "propaganda is unusually slick," noting that, "They are
broadcasting... in something like 23 languages".[197]

In July 2014, al-Hayat began publishing a digital magazine called _Dabiq_ , in
a number of different languages including English. According to the magazine,
its name is taken from the town of Dabiq in northern Syria, which is mentioned
in a hadith about Armageddon.[198] Al-Hayat also began publishing other
digital magazines, including the Turkish language _Konstantiniyye_ , the
Ottoman word for Istanbul,[199][200] and the French language _Dar al-
Islam_.[201] By late 2016, these magazines had apparently all been
discontinued, with Al-Hayat's material being consolidated into a new magazine
called _Rumiyah_ (Arabic for Rome).[202]

The group also runs a radio network called Al-Bayan, which airs bulletins in
Arabic, Russian and English and provides coverage of its activities in Iraq,
Syria and Libya.[203]

#### Social media

ISIL's use of social media has been described by one expert as "probably more
sophisticated than [that of] most US companies".[188][204] It regularly uses
social media, particularly Twitter, to distribute its messages.[204][205] The
group uses the encrypted instant messaging service Telegram to disseminate
images, videos and updates.[206]

The group is known for releasing videos and photographs of executions of
prisoners, whether beheadings, shootings, caged prisoners being burnt alive or
submerged gradually until drowned.[207] Journalist Abdel Bari Atwan described
ISIL's media content as part of a "systematically applied policy". The
escalating violence of its killings "guarantees" the attention of the media
and public.[148]

Along with images of brutality, ISIL presents itself as "an emotionally
attractive place where people 'belong', where everyone is a 'brother' or
'sister'". The "most potent psychological pitch" of ISIL media is the promise
of heavenly reward to dead jihadist fighters. Frequently posted in their media
are dead jihadists' smiling faces, the ISIL 'salute' of a 'right-hand index
finger pointing heavenward', and testimonies of happy widows.[148] ISIL has
also attempted to present a more "rational argument" in a series of videos
hosted by the kidnapped journalist John Cantlie. In one video, various current
and former US officials were quoted, such as the then US President Barack
Obama and former CIA Officer Michael Scheuer.[208]

It has encouraged sympathisers to initiate Vehicle-ramming and attacks
worldwide.[209]

### Finances

Main article: Finances of ISIL

See also: Oil production and smuggling in ISIL

According to a 2015 study by the Financial Action Task Force, ISIL's five
primary sources of revenue are as followed (listed in order of significance):

  * proceeds from the occupation of territory (including control of banks, petroleum reservoirs, taxation, extortion, and robbery of economic assets)
  * kidnapping for ransom[210]
  * donations from Saudi Arabia and Gulf states, often disguised as meant for "humanitarian charity"
  * material support provided by foreign fighters
  * fundraising through modern communication networks[211]

Since 2012, ISIL has produced annual reports giving numerical information on
its operations, somewhat in the style of corporate reports, seemingly in a bid
to encourage potential donors.[188][212]

In 2014, the RAND Corporation analysed ISIL's funding sources from documents
captured between 2005 and 2010.[213] It found that outside donations amounted
to only 5% of the group's operating budgets,[213] and that cells inside Iraq
were required to send up to 20% of the income generated from kidnapping,
extortion rackets and other activities to the next level of the group's
leadership, which would then redistribute the funds to provincial or local
cells that were in difficulties or needed money to conduct attacks.[213] In
2016, RAND estimated that ISIL finances from its largest source of income —
oil revenues and the taxes it extracts from people under its control — had
fallen from about $1.9 billion in 2014 to $870 million.[214]

In mid-2014, the Iraqi National Intelligence Service obtained information that
ISIL had assets worth US$2 billion,[215] making it the richest jihadist group
in the world.[216] About three-quarters of this sum was said to looted from
Mosul's central bank and commercial banks in the city.[217][218] However,
doubt was later cast on whether ISIL was able to retrieve anywhere near that
sum from the central bank,[219] and even on whether the looting had actually
occurred.[220]

#### Monetary system

Main article: Modern gold dinar

ISIL mints its own gold, silver, and copper coins, based on the coinage used
by the Umayyad Caliphate in the 7th century.[221][222][223][224] It believes
paper money is or will be "worthless". (Economists believe this use of gold
will present problems as users will want to hoard rather than spend gold coins
and will use paper currency instead.)[225]

## History

Part of **a series** on the  
  
---  
 Islamic State of Iraq  
and the Levant history  
  
Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad (1999–2004)

Tanzim Qaidat al-Jihad fi Bilad  
al-Rafidayn (2004–06)

Mujahideen Shura Council (2006)

Islamic State of Iraq (2006–13)

Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (2013–14)

As _"Islamic State"_  (June 2014–present)  
By topic  
  
  * Beheadings
  * Black Standard
  * Ideology
  * Destruction of cultural heritage
  * Human rights
  * List of battles
  * Terrorist incidents
  * Members
  * Military
  * Territorial claims
  * Timeline
  * Administrative divisions
  * Claimed oil fields

  
  
  * Category
  * Portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
### Foundation (1999–2006)

The UN headquarters building in Baghdad after the Canal Hotel bombing, on 22
August 2003

The group was founded in 1999 by Jordanian Salafi jihadist Abu Musab al-
Zarqawi under the name _Jamāʻat al-Tawḥīd wa-al-Jihād_ ( lit. "The
Organisation of Monotheism and Jihad").[51] Following the 2003 invasion of
Iraq by Western forces, al-Zarqawi and _Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad_ achieved
notoriety in the early stages of the Iraqi insurgency for their suicide
attacks on Shia mosques, civilians, Iraqi government institutions and Italian
soldiers of the US-led 'Multi-National Force'.

In October 2004, when al-Zarqawi swore loyalty to Osama bin Laden and al-
Qaeda, he renamed the group _Tanẓīm Qāʻidat al-Jihād fī Bilād al-Rāfidayn_ (
lit. "The Organisation of Jihad's Base in Mesopotamia"), commonly known as al-
Qaeda in Iraq (AQI).[2][226][227][228][229] Although the group never called
itself _al-Qaeda in Iraq_ , this remained its informal name for many
years.[230] Attacks by the group on civilians, Iraqi government forces,
foreign diplomats and soldiers, and American convoys continued with roughly
the same intensity. In a letter to al-Zarqawi in July 2005, al-Qaeda's then
deputy leader Ayman al-Zawahiri outlined a four-stage plan to expand the Iraq
War. The plan included expelling US forces from Iraq, establishing an Islamic
authority as a caliphate, spreading the conflict to Iraq's secular neighbours,
and clashing with Israel, which the letter said, "[...] was established only
to challenge any new Islamic entity".[231]

In January 2006, AQI joined with several smaller Iraqi Sunni insurgent groups
under an umbrella organisation called the Mujahideen Shura Council (MSC).
According to counterterrorism researcher Brian Fishman, the merger was an
attempt to give the group a more Iraqi flavour, and perhaps to distance al-
Qaeda from some of al-Zarqawi's tactical errors, such as the 2005 bombings by
AQI of three hotels in Amman.[232] On 7 June 2006, a US airstrike killed al-
Zarqawi, who was succeeded as leader of the group by the Egyptian militant Abu
Ayyub al-Masri.[233][234][235]

### Islamic State of Iraq (2006–2013)

U.S. Marines in Ramadi, May 2006. The Islamic State of Iraq had declared the
city to be its capital.

On 12 October 2006, MSC united with three smaller groups and six Sunni tribes
to form the Mutayibeen Coalition, pledging "To rid Sunnis from the oppression
of the rejectionists (Shi'ite Muslims) and the crusader occupiers ... to
restore rights even at the price of our own lives ... to make Allah's word
supreme in the world, and to restore the glory of Islam".[236][237] A day
later, MSC declared the establishment of the Islamic State of Iraq (ISI),
comprising Iraq's six mostly Sunni Arab governorates,[238] with Abu Omar al-
Baghdadi its emir[239][240] and al-Masri Minister of War within ISI's ten-
member cabinet.[241]

According to a study compiled by United States intelligence agencies in early
2007, ISI planned to seize power in the central and western areas of Iraq and
turn it into a Sunni caliphate.[242] The group built in strength and at its
height enjoyed a significant presence in the Iraqi governorates of Al Anbar,
Diyala and Baghdad, claiming Baqubah as a capital city.[243][244][245][246]

The Iraq War troop surge of 2007 supplied the US military with more manpower
for operations, and dozens of high-level AQI members being captured or
killed.[247] Between July and October 2007, al-Qaeda in Iraq was reported to
have lost its secure military bases in Al Anbar province and the Baghdad
area.[248] During 2008, a series of US and Iraqi offensives managed to drive
out AQI-aligned insurgents from their former safe havens, such as the Diyala
and Al Anbar governorates, to the area of the northern city of Mosul.[249]

U.S. Army soldier with captured ISI flag in Iraq, December 2010

By 2008, the ISI was describing itself as being in a state of "extraordinary
crisis".[250] Its violent attempts to govern territory led to a backlash from
Sunni Arab Iraqis and other insurgent groups and a temporary decline in the
group, which was attributable to a number of factors,[251] notably the Anbar
Awakening.

In late 2009, the commander of US forces in Iraq, General Ray Odierno, stated
that ISI "has transformed significantly in the last two years. What once was
dominated by foreign individuals has now become more and more dominated by
Iraqi citizens".[252] On 18 April 2010, ISI's two top leaders, al-Masri and
Omar al-Baghdadi, were killed in a joint US-Iraqi raid near Tikrit.[253] In a
press conference in June 2010, General Odierno reported that 80% of ISI's top
42 leaders, including recruiters and financiers, had been killed or captured,
with only eight remaining at large. He said that they had been cut off from
al-Qaeda's leadership in Pakistan.[254][255][256]

The Al-Askari Mosque, one of the holiest sites in Shia Islam, after the first
attack by Islamic State of Iraq in 2006

2012–13 Iraqi protests: Iraqi Sunni demonstrators protesting against the Shia-
led government. Some Sunnis took up arms and joined forces with ISIL to
conduct a military campaign against the Maliki government.

On 16 May 2010, Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi was appointed the new leader of
ISI.[257][258] Al-Baghdadi replenished the group's leadership by appointing
former Iraqi military and Intelligence Service officers who had served during
Saddam Hussein's rule.[151][259] These men, nearly all of whom had spent time
imprisoned by the US military at Camp Bucca, came to make up about one third
of Baghdadi's top 25 commanders, including Abu Abdulrahman al-Bilawi, Abu
Ayman al-Iraqi, and Abu Muslim al-Turkmani. One of them, a former colonel
called Samir al-Khlifawi, also known as Haji Bakr, became the overall military
commander in charge of overseeing the group's operations.[150][260] Al-
Khlifawi was instrumental in doing the ground work that led to the growth of
ISIL.[261][128]

In July 2012, al-Baghdadi released an audio statement online announcing that
the group was returning to former strongholds from which US troops and the
Sons of Iraq had driven them in 2007 and 2008.[262] He declared the start of a
new offensive in Iraq called _Breaking the Walls_ , aimed at freeing members
of the group held in Iraqi prisons.[262] Violence in Iraq had begun to
escalate in June 2012, primarily with AQI's car bomb attacks, and by July
2013, monthly fatalities exceeded 1,000 for the first time since April
2008.[263]

#### Syrian Civil War

In March 2011, protests began in Syria against the Syrian government of Bashar
al-Assad. In the following months, violence between demonstrators and security
forces led to a gradual militarisation of the conflict.[264] In August 2011,
following the outbreak of the Syrian Civil War, al-Baghdadi began sending
Syrian and Iraqi ISI members experienced in guerilla warfare across the border
into Syria to establish an organisation there. Under the name _Jabhat an-
Nuṣrah li-Ahli ash-Shām_ (or al-Nusra Front), it established a large presence
in Sunni-majority Raqqa, Idlib, Deir ez-Zor, and Aleppo provinces. Led by a
Syrian known as Abu Muhammad al-Julani, this group began to recruit fighters
and establish cells throughout the country.[265][266]

On 23 January 2012, the Syrian group called itself _Jabhat al-Nusra li Ahl as-
Sham_ ,[267] more commonly known as the al-Nusra Front. Al-Nusra grew rapidly
into a capable fighting force, with popular support among Syrians opposed to
the Assad government.[265]

### Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (2013–2014)

Main articles: Timeline of ISIL-related events (2013) and Timeline of ISIL-
related events (2014)

On 8 April 2013, al-Baghdadi released an audio statement in which he announced
that the al-Nusra Front had been established, financed, and supported by
ISI,[268] and that the two groups were merging under the name Islamic State of
Iraq and Al-Sham (ISIL, Al-Sham also translates as the Levant).[269] However,
Abu Mohammad al-Julani and Ayman al-Zawahiri, the leaders of al-Nusra and al-
Qaeda respectively, rejected the merger. Al-Julani issued a statement denying
the merger, and complaining that neither he nor anyone else in al-Nusra's
leadership had been consulted about it.[270] In June 2013, Al Jazeera reported
that it had obtained a letter written by al-Qaeda's leader Ayman al-Zawahiri,
addressed to both leaders, in which he ruled against the merger, and appointed
an emissary to oversee relations between them to put an end to tensions.[271]
That same month, al-Baghdadi released an audio message rejecting al-Zawahiri's
ruling and declaring that the merger was going ahead.[272]

Meanwhile, the ISIL campaign to free its imprisoned members culminated in
simultaneous raids on Taji and Abu Ghraib prisons in July 2013, freeing more
than 500 prisoners, many of them veterans of the Iraqi insurgency.[263][273]
In October 2013, al-Zawahiri ordered the disbanding of ISIL, putting al-Nusra
Front in charge of jihadist efforts in Syria,[274] but al-Baghdadi rejected
al-Zawahiri's order,[272] and his group continued to operate in Syria. In
February 2014, after an eight-month power struggle, al-Qaeda publicly
disavowed any relations with ISIL.[275]

According to journalist Sarah Birke, there are "significant differences"
between al-Nusra Front and ISIL. While al-Nusra actively calls for the
overthrow of the Assad government, ISIL "tends to be more focused on
establishing its own rule on conquered territory". ISIL is "far more ruthless"
in building an Islamic state, "carrying out sectarian attacks and imposing
sharia law immediately". While al-Nusra has a "large contingent of foreign
fighters", it is seen as a home-grown group by many Syrians; by contrast, ISIL
fighters have been described as "foreign 'occupiers'" by many Syrian
refugees.[276] Foreign fighters in Syria include Russian-speaking jihadists
who were part of Jaish al-Muhajireen wal-Ansar (JMA).[277] In November 2013,
Abu Omar al-Shishani, leader of the Jaish al-Muhajireen wal-Ansar (JMA), swore
an oath of allegiance to al-Baghdadi;[278] the group then split between those
who followed al-Shishani in joining ISIL and those who continued to operate
independently in the JMA under new leadership.[279]

In January 2014, rebels affiliated with the Islamic Front and the US-trained
Free Syrian Army[280] launched an offensive against ISIL militants in and
around the city of Aleppo, following months of tensions over ISIL's behavior,
which included the seizure of property and weapons from rebel groups, and the
arrests and killings of activists.[281][282] Months of clashes ensued, causing
thousands of casualties, with ISIL withdrawing its forces from Idlib and
Latakia provinces and redeploying them to reinforce its strongholds in Raqqa
and Aleppo.[283] It also launched an offensive against all other opposition
forces active in the eastern province of Deir ez-Zor, on the border with
Iraq.[284][285] By June 2014, ISIL had largely defeated its rivals in the
province, with many who had not been killed or driven away pledging allegiance
to it.[286][287]

In Iraq, ISIL was able to capture most of Fallujah in January 2014,[288] and
in June 2014 was able to seize control of Mosul.[62]

After an eight-month power struggle, al-Qaeda cut all ties with ISIL by
February 2014, citing its failure to consult and "notorious
intransigence".[4][275]

In early 2014, ISIL drove Iraqi government forces out of key cities in its
Anbar campaign,[61] which was followed by the capture of Mosul[62] and the
Sinjar massacre.[63] The loss of control almost caused a collapse of the Iraqi
government and prompted a renewal of US military action in Iraq. In Syria,
ISIL has conducted ground attacks on both the Syrian Arab Army and rebel
factions.

### Islamic State (2014–present)

Main articles: Timeline of ISIL-related events (2014), Timeline of ISIL-
related events (2015), Timeline of ISIL-related events (2016), and Timeline of
ISIL-related events (2017)

See also: ISIL beheading incidents, American-led intervention in Syria,
American-led intervention in Iraq (2014–present), Russian military
intervention in the Syrian Civil War, Iranian intervention in Iraq
(2014–present), Military intervention against ISIL, Northern Iraq offensive
(June 2014), and Turkish involvement in the Syrian Civil War

On 29 June 2014, ISIL proclaimed itself to be a worldwide caliphate.[289] Abu
Bakr al-Baghdadi – known by his supporters as Amir al-Mu'minin, Caliph Ibrahim
– was named its caliph, and the group renamed itself _ad-Dawlah al-Islāmiyah_
( "Islamic State" (IS)).[68] As a "Caliphate", it claims religious, political
and military authority over all Muslims worldwide.[70] The concept of it being
a caliphate and the name "Islamic State" have been rejected by governments and
Muslim leaders worldwide.[89][90][290][93][94][96][92]

In June and July 2014, Jordan and Saudi Arabia moved troops to their borders
with Iraq, after the Iraqi government lost control of (or withdrew from)
strategic crossing points that then came under the control of either ISIL or
tribes that supported it.[291][292] There was speculation that Iraqi Prime
Minister Nouri al-Maliki had ordered a withdrawal of troops from the
Iraq–Saudi crossings in order "to increase pressure on Saudi Arabia and bring
the threat of ISIS over-running its borders as well".[293]

In July 2014, ISIL recruited more than 6,300 fighters, according to the Syrian
Observatory for Human Rights, some of whom were thought to have previously
fought for the Free Syrian Army.[294] On 23 July 2014, Abu Sayyaf leader
Isnilon Totoni Hapilon and some masked men swore loyalty to al-Baghdadi in a
video, giving ISIL a presence in the Philippines.[77][295] In September 2014,
the group began kidnapping people for ransom.[296]

In 2016, according to the daily, La Stampa, officials from Europol conducted
an investigation into the trafficking of fake documents for ISIL. They have
identified fake Syrian passports in the refugee camps in Greece that were
destined to supposed members of ISIS, in order to avoid Greek government
controls and make their way to other parts of Europe.[297] Also, the chief of
Europol said that a new task force of 200 counter terrorism officers will be
deployed to the Greek islands alongside Greek border guards in order to help
Greece thwart a “strategic” level campaign by Islamic State to infiltrate
terrorists into Europe.[298]

#### Capture of territory

Yazidi refugees and American aid workers on Mount Sinjar in August 2014

On 3 August 2014, ISIL captured the cities of Zumar, Sinjar, and Wana in
northern Iraq.[63] Thousands of Yazidis fled up Mount Sinjar, fearful of the
approaching hostile ISIL militants. The stranded Yazidis' need for food and
water, the threat of genocide to them and to others announced by ISIL, along
with the desire to protect US citizens in Iraq and support the Iraqi
government in its fight against ISIL, were all reasons given for the 2014
American intervention in Iraq, which began on 7 August.[299] A US aerial
bombing campaign began the following day.

At the end of October 2014, 800 militants gained partial control of the Libyan
city of Derna and pledged their allegiance to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, thus
making Derna the first city outside Syria and Iraq to be a part of the
"Islamic State Caliphate".[300] On 10 November 2014, a major faction of the
Egyptian militant group Ansar Bait al-Maqdis also pledged its allegiance to
ISIL.[301] In mid-January 2015, a Yemeni official said that ISIL had "dozens"
of members in Yemen, and that they were coming into direct competition with
al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula because of their recruitment drive.[302] The
same month, Afghan officials confirmed that ISIL had a military presence in
Afghanistan.[303] However, by February 2015, 65 of the militants were either
captured or killed by the Taliban, and ISIL's top Afghan recruiter, Mullah
Abdul Rauf, was killed in a US drone strike.[304][305][306]

Coalition airstrike on ISIL position in Kobani, October 2014

In early February 2015, ISIL militants in Libya managed to capture part of the
countryside to the west of Sabha, and later, an area encompassing the cities
of Sirte, Nofolia, and a military base to the south of both cities. By March,
ISIL had captured additional territory, including a city to the west of Derna,
additional areas near Sirte, a stretch of land in southern Libya, some areas
around Benghazi, and an area to the east of Tripoli.

On 7 March 2015, Boko Haram swore formal allegiance to ISIL, giving ISIL an
official presence in Nigeria, Niger, Chad and Cameroon.[7][307][308] On 13
March 2015, a group of militants from the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan swore
allegiance to ISIL;[309] the group released another video on 31 July 2015
showing its spiritual leader also pledging allegiance.[310] In June 2015, the
US Deputy Secretary of State announced that ISIL had lost more than 10,000
members in airstrikes over the preceding nine months.[311][312]

#### Loss of territory and declarations of victory by opponents

Since 2015, ISIL lost territory in Iraq and Syria, including Tikrit in March
and April 2015,[313] Baiji in October,[314] Sinjar in November 2015,[315][316]
Ramadi in December 2015,[317] Fallujah in June 2016[318] and Palmyra in March
2017.[319]

On July 10, 2017, Iraqi Prime Minister Abadi formally declared a local Iraqi
victory over ISIL in the recent Iraqi army expulsion of ISIL from the city of
Mosul.[79] Since the fall of ISIL in Mosul, the overall extent of ISIL held
territory in both Syria and Iraq has significantly diminished.[80] On 17
October 2017, ISIL lost control of Raqqa in the second battle of Raqqa.[320]
On 3 November, Deir ez-Zor, ISIL's last major city in Syria, was
recaptured,[321] as well as Rawa, the last town held by ISIL in Iraq.[322]

On 21 November 2017, Iranian president Hassan Rouhani declared victory over
ISIL.[323] Qasem Soleimani, senior military officer of the Guardians of the
Islamic Revolution, wrote to Iran’s supreme leader Ali Khamenei that ISIL had
been defeated.[323] Vladimir Putin, President of Russia, declared victory over
ISIL in Syria as well.[324] Iraqi prime minister, Haider al-Abadi, also
announced the military defeat of ISIL in Iraq.[325]

### Terrorist attacks outside Iraq and Syria

In 2015, 2016 and 2017, ISIL claimed responsibility for a number of high-
profile terrorist attacks outside Iraq and Syria, including a mass shooting at
a Tunisian tourist resort (38 European tourists killed),[326] the Suruç
bombing in Turkey (33 leftist and pro-Kurdish activists killed), the Tunisian
National Museum attack (24 foreign tourists and Tunisians killed), the Sana'a
mosque bombings (142 Shia civilians killed), the crash of Metrojet Flight 9268
(224 killed, mostly Russian tourists), the bombings in Ankara (102 pro-Kurdish
and leftist activists killed), the bombings in Beirut (43 Shia civilians
killed), the November 2015 Paris attacks (130 civilians killed), the killing
of Jaafar Mohammed Saad, the governor of Aden, the January 2016 Istanbul
bombing (11 foreign tourists killed), the 2016 Brussels bombings (32 civilians
killed), the 2016 Nice attack (86 civilians killed), the July 2016 Kabul
bombing (at least 80 civilians killed, mostly Shia Hazaras), the 2016 Berlin
attack (12 civilians killed), the 2017 Istanbul nightclub shooting (39
foreigners and Turks killed), the 2017 Saint Petersburg Metro bombing (15
civilians killed), the 2017 Manchester Arena bombing (22 civilians killed) and
the 2017 Tehran attacks (18 civilians killed).[327][328][329] The Saudi
Arabian government reports that in one relatively short period—the first 8
months of 2016—there were 25 attacks in the kingdom by ISIL.[330]

#### Mass killings

On 30 August 2016, a survey conducted by the Associated Press found that
around 72 mass graves have been discovered in areas that have been liberated
from ISIL control. In total, these mass graves contain the bodies of
approximately 15,000 people killed by ISIL. The report stated that the mass
graves were evidence of genocides conducted by ISIL in the region, including
the genocide of Yazidis. Seventeen graves were discovered in Syria, with the
rest being found in Iraq. At least 16 of the graves in Iraq contained remains
that were not counted, as they are located in dangerous conflict zones.
Instead, the number of dead in these graves has been estimated.[331]

### Timeline of events

Main article: Timeline of ISIL related events

See also: Islamic State of Iraq § Timeline, Syrian Civil War § Course of
events, Terrorist incidents in Iraq in 2014, and Terrorist incidents in Iraq
in 2015

    _2013 events._
    _Index2014 events: January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December._
    _Index2015 events: January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December._
    _Index2016 events: January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November, December._
    _Index2017 events: January, February, March, April, May, June, July, August, September, October, November_

##  Territorial control and claims

Main article: ISIL territorial claims

     Areas controlled around the group's peak in early June 2015

As a self-proclaimed worldwide caliphate, ISIL claims religious, political and
military authority over all Muslims worldwide,[70] and that "the legality of
all emirates, groups, states, and organisations, becomes null by the expansion
of the khilāfah's [caliphate's] authority and arrival of its troops to their
areas".[117] Outside Iraq and Syria, it controls territory only in Sinai,
Afghanistan, and Libya.[75]

### Iraq and Syria

Much of Raqqa has suffered extensive damage during the battle of Raqqa in
June–October 2017

Since December 2013, ongoing clashes have occurred throughout western Iraq
between tribal militias, Iraqi security forces, and ISIL. In early January
2014, ISIL militants successfully captured the cities of Fallujah and
Hīt,[332] bringing much of Anbar Province under their control. In June 2014
ISIL took over the Iraqi city of Mosul. By December 2015, the Islamic State
covered a vast landlocked territory in western Iraq and eastern Syria, with a
population estimate of 2.8 to 8 million people.[72][333]

In Iraq and Syria, ISIL uses many of those countries' existing governorate
boundaries to subdivide its claimed territory; it calls these divisions
wilayah or provinces.[334] By June 2015, it had established official
"provinces" in Libya, Egypt (Sinai Peninsula), Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Algeria,
Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria and the North Caucasus.[335] Since then, ISIL
has continued to receive pledges of allegiance and publish media releases from
groups in countries like Somalia,[336] Bangladesh[337] and the
Philippines,[338] but it has not announced any further official branches,
instead identifying new affiliates as simply _"soldiers of the
caliphate"_.[339]

###  Libyan Provinces

Main article: Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant in Libya

ISIL organises its Libyan branch using the country's three historical regions,
Cyrenaica in the east, Fezzan in the desert south, and Tripolitania in the
west.[340] They have been the most active and successful of all ISIL branches
outside Iraq and Syria. It has been active particularly around Derna, and
Gaddafi's hometown Sirte.[341][342] The group grew quickly following the
allegiance of militant groups like the Shura Council of Islamic
Youth.[343][344]

ISIL temporarily controlled part of Derna before being driven out in mid-2015
by a rival militant Islamist group, with support from the Libyan Air
Force.[345][346] Libya’s Interim Government launched a major offensive against
ISIL territory around Sirte in May 2016,[347][348] capturing the city by
December 2016.[349] The Libyan National Army, led by Commander General Khalifa
Haftar, has also clashed with ISIL, making advances against the group in
Benghazi and Ajdabiya.[350][351][352]

Since the Battle of Sirte (12 May – 6 December 2016) ISIL lost most of its
territories in Libya to the forces of the Government of National Accord (GNA),
backed by the United States.[353] And as of 11 November 2017 the last pockets
of the ISIL-affiliated Shura Council of Benghazi Revolutionaries were captured
by the LNA after three years of fighting.[354]

### Sinai Province

Main article: Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Sinai Province

On 10 November 2014, many members of the group Ansar Bait al-Maqdis took an
oath of allegiance to al-Baghdadi.[301] Following this, the group assumed the
designation Sinai Province ( _Wilayat Sinai_ ).[343][355][356][357] They are
estimated to have 1,000–2,000 fighters.[77][358] A faction of the Sinai group
also operates in the Gaza Strip, calling itself the _Islamic State in
Gaza_.[359] It claimed responsibility for the downing of Russian Metrojet
Flight 9268, which killed all 224 people on board, although Egyptian officials
disputed the claim.[360]

###  Algerian Province

Main article: Jund al-Khilafah

Members of Jund al-Khilafah swore allegiance to ISIL in September 2014.[361]
ISIL in Algeria gained notoriety when it beheaded French tourist Herve Gourdel
in September 2014. Since then, the group has largely been silent, with reports
that its leader Khalid Abu-Sulayman was killed by Algerian forces in December
2014.[335]

### Khorasan Province

Main article: Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Khorasan Province

On 26 January 2015, Khorasan Province (Wilayat Khorasan) was established, with
Hafiz Saeed Khan named as Wāli (Governor) and Abdul Rauf as his deputy after
both swore an oath of allegiance to al-Baghdadi. The name Khorasan refers to a
historical region that includes Afghanistan, Pakistan, and "other nearby
lands".[5][306][362][363]

On 9 February 2015, Mullah Abdul Rauf was killed by a NATO airstrike,[306] and
his replacement, Hafiz Wahidi, was killed by the Afghan Armed Forces on 18
March 2015.[364] Hafiz Saeed Khan, the Emir of ISIL's Khorasan Province, was
reportedly killed in a US drone strike in eastern Afghanistan on 25 July
2016.[365]

### Yemen Provinces

Main article: Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Yemen Province

Current military situation in Yemen:  

  Under the control of ISIL

On 13 November 2014, unidentified militants in Yemen pledged allegiance to
ISIL.[361] By December of that year, ISIL had built an active presence inside
Yemen, with its recruitment drive bringing it into direct competition with al-
Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula (AQAP).[302][366] In February 2015, it was
reported that some members of Ansar al-Sharia in Yemen had split from AQAP and
pledged allegiance to ISIL.[367] As the Yemeni Civil War escalated in March
2015, at least seven ISIL Wilayat, named after existing provincial boundaries
in Yemen, claimed responsibility for attacks against the Houthis, including
the _Hadhramaut Province_ , the _Shabwah Province_ , and the _Sana'a
Province_.[368][369]

Zaidiyyah Houthis (organised in the Supreme Revolutionary Committee) are the
principal enemies of Yemen's ISIL branch.[370][371] While the US government
supports the Saudi-led military intervention in Yemen against the
Houthis,[372] many in United States Special Operations Command favour the
Houthis, as they have been an effective force in rolling back al-Qaeda and
recently ISIL in Yemen, "something that hundreds of U.S. drone strikes and
large numbers of advisers to Yemen's military had failed to accomplish".[373]
_The Guardian_ reported: "As another 50 civilians die in the forgotten war,
only Isis and al-Qaida are gaining from a conflict tearing Yemen apart and
leaving 20 million people in need of aid."[374]

###  West African Province

Main article: Boko Haram

On 7 March 2015, Boko Haram's leader Abubakar Shekau pledged allegiance to the
Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant via an audio message posted on the
organisation's Twitter account.[375][376] On 12 March 2015, ISIL's spokesman
Abu Mohammad al-Adnani released an audio tape in which he welcomed the pledge
of allegiance, and described it as an expansion of the group's caliphate into
West Africa.[6] ISIL publications from late March 2015 began referring to
members of Boko Haram as part of _Wilayat Gharb Afriqiya_ (West Africa
Province).[369] The group suffered a split in 2016, with ISIL appointing 'Abu
Musab al-Barnawi' as the group's new leader, due to disagreements with
Abubakar Shekau's leadership.[377] This was rejected by Shekau and his
supporters, who continued to operate independently.[378]

###  North Caucasus Province

Main article: Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant – Caucasus Province

Some commanders of the Caucasus Emirate in Chechnya and Dagestan switched
their allegiance to ISIL in late 2014 and early 2015.[379] On 23 June 2015,
ISIL spokesman Abu Mohammad al-Adnani accepted the pledges of allegiance and
announced a new Caucasus Province ( _Wilayat al-Qawqaz_ ) under the leadership
of Rustam Asildarov.[8][335]

### Southeast Asia

Main articles: Abu Sayyaf and Battle of Marawi (2017)

On 23 July 2014, Abu Sayyaf leader Isnilon Totoni Hapilon in the Philippines
swore an oath of loyalty to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, the leader of ISIL.[295] In
September 2014, the group began kidnapping people so they could be held for
ransom, in the name of ISIL.[296] In early 2015, members of Khalifa Islamiyah
Mindanao pledged allegiance to ISIL. At the same time, Ansar Khalifa
Philippines was born from a merger of Ansar Khalifah Sarangani with other
umbrella groups that are pro-ISIL in nature.[ _citation needed_ ] In May 2017,
a pro-ISIL group called the Maute group attacked and seized parts of the
southern Philippine city of Marawi on Mindanao island.[380]

On 17 October 2017, Philippine President Duterte declared Marawi was
"liberated from terrorist influence".[381] Then on 23 October 2017, Philippine
Defense Secretary Delfin Lorenzana announced that the five-month battle
against the terrorists in Marawi had finally ended.[382] The recapture of
Marawi by the government led to the failure of militants to establish a
provincial ISIL territory _(wilayat)_ in the Philippines.

###  Islamic State in Gaza

Main article: Sheikh Omar Hadid Brigade

In February 2014, the Mujahideen Shura Council in the Environs of Jerusalem
declared its support for ISIL.[383] On 2 April 2015, elements of this group,
along with members of the Army of Islam and the Gaza faction of Ansar Bait al-
Maqdis,[384][385] formed the Sheikh Omar Hadid Brigade, also known as Islamic
State in Gaza,[386] as it predominantly operates in the Gaza Strip.

### Other areas of operation

  * Unidentified militants in Saudi Arabia pledged allegiance to ISIL – designated as a province of ISIL.[361]
  * The _Free Sunnis of Baalbek Brigade_ (Lebanon) pledged allegiance to ISIL.[77]
  * _Sons of the Call for Tawhid and Jihad_ (Jordan) pledged allegiance to ISIL.[387]
  * _Janood-ul-Khalifa-e-Hind_ (India) pledged allegiance to ISIL.[388]
  * _Ansar al-Khilafah_ (Brazil) pledged allegiance to ISIL.[389]
  * _Profetens Ummah_ (Norway) pledged allegiance to ISIL.[390][391]
  * _Mujahidin Indonesia Timur_ (Indonesia) pledged allegiance to ISIL.[392]

##  International reaction

### Classification as a terrorist organisation

Many countries and international bodies have officially designated ISIL as a
_terrorist organisation_.

###  International criticism

The group has attracted widespread criticism internationally for its
extremism, from governments and international bodies such as the United
Nations and Amnesty International. On 24 September 2014, United Nations
Secretary-General Ban Ki-Moon stated: "As Muslim leaders around the world have
said, groups like ISIL – or Da’ish – have nothing to do with Islam, and they
certainly do not represent a state. They should more fittingly be called the
'Un-Islamic Non-State'."[393] ISIL has been classified a terrorist
organisation by the United Nations, the European Union and its member states,
the United States, Russia, India, Turkey, Saudi Arabia and many other
countries (see § Classification). Over 60 countries are directly or indirectly
waging war against ISIL (see § Countries and groups at war with ISIL). The
group was described as a cult in a Huffington Post column by notable cult
authority Steven Hassan.[394]

### Islamic criticism

See also: Khawarij

Around the world, Islamic religious leaders have overwhelmingly condemned
ISIL's ideology and actions, arguing that the group has strayed from the path
of true Islam and that its actions do not reflect the religion's real
teachings or virtues.[395]

Extremism within Islam goes back to the 7th century, to the Khawarijes. From
their essentially political position, the Kharijites developed extreme
doctrines which set them apart from both mainstream Sunni and Shia Muslims.
They were particularly noted for adopting a radical approach to takfir,
whereby they declared other Muslims to be unbelievers and therefore deemed
worthy of death.[396][397][398][399] Other scholars have also described the
group not as Sunnis, but as Khawarij.[397][400] Sunni critics, including
Salafi and jihadist muftis such as Adnan al-Aroor and Abu Basir al-Tartusi,
say that ISIL and related terrorist groups are not Sunnis, but are instead
modern-day Kharijites (Muslims who have stepped outside the mainstream of
Islam) serving an imperial anti-Islamic agenda.[401]

ISIL has received severe criticism from Muslim religious scholars and
theologians. In late August 2014, the Grand Mufti of Saudi Arabia, Abdul-Aziz
ibn Abdullah Al ash-Sheikh, condemned ISIL and al-Qaeda saying, "Extremist and
militant ideas and terrorism which spread decay on Earth, destroying human
civilization, are not in any way part of Islam, but are enemy number one of
Islam, and Muslims are their first victims".[402] In late September 2014, 126
Sunni imams and Islamic scholars—primarily Sufi[403]—from around the Muslim
world signed an open letter to the Islamic State's leader al-Baghdadi,
explicitly rejecting and refuting his group's interpretations of Islamic
scriptures, the Quran and hadith, which it used in order to justify its
actions.[404][405] "[You] have misinterpreted Islam into a religion of
harshness, brutality, torture and murder ... this is a great wrong and an
offence to Islam, to Muslims and to the entire world", the letter states.[406]
It rebukes the Islamic State for its killing of prisoners, describing the
killings as "heinous war crimes" and its persecution of the Yazidis of Iraq as
"abominable". Referring to the "self-described 'Islamic State'", the letter
censures the group for carrying out killings and acts of brutality under the
guise of jihad—holy struggle—saying that its "sacrifice" without legitimate
cause, goals and intention "is not jihad at all, but rather, warmongering and
criminality".[406][407] It also accuses the group of instigating
fitna—sedition—by instituting slavery under its rule in contravention of the
anti-slavery consensus of the Islamic scholarly community.[406]

Kurdish demonstration against ISIL in Vienna, Austria, 10 October 2014

According to _The New York Times_ , "All of the most influential jihadist
theorists are criticising the Islamic State as deviant, calling its self-
proclaimed caliphate null and void" and they have denounced it for its
beheadings of journalists and aid workers.[13] ISIL is widely denounced by a
broad range of Islamic clerics, including al-Qaeda-oriented clerics and Saudi
clerics.[12][13] Muhammad al-Yaqoubi states, "It is enough of a proof of the
extreme ideology of ISIS that the top leaders of Salafi-Jihadism have
disclaimed it."[408] Other critics of ISIL's brand of Sunni Islam include
Salafists who previously publicly supported jihadist groups such as al-Qaeda:
for example, the Saudi government official Saleh Al-Fawzan, known for his
extremist views, who claims that ISIL is a creation of "Zionists, Crusaders
and Safavids", and the Jordanian-Palestinian writer Abu Muhammad al-Maqdisi,
the former spiritual mentor to Abu Musab al-Zarqawi, who was released from
prison in Jordan in June 2014 and accused ISIL of driving a wedge between
Muslims.[401]

The group's declaration of a caliphate has been criticised and its legitimacy
has been disputed by Middle Eastern governments, other jihadist groups,[409]
and by Sunni Muslim theologians and historians. Qatar-based TV broadcaster and
theologian Yusuf al-Qaradawi stated: "[The] declaration issued by the Islamic
State is void under sharia and has dangerous consequences for the Sunnis in
Iraq and for the revolt in Syria", adding that the title of caliph can "only
be given by the entire Muslim nation", not by a single group.[410] The group's
execution of Muslims for breach of traditional _sharia_ law while violating it
itself (encouraging women to emigrate to its territory, travelling without a
_Wali_ —male guardian—and in violation of his wishes) has been
criticised;[411] as has its love of archaic imagery (horsemen and swords)
while engaging in _bid‘ah_ (religious innovation) in establishing female
religious police (known as Al-Khansaa Brigade).[412] In a similar vein, the
Syrian Islamic scholar Muhammad al-Yaqoubi says, "[t]he followers of ISIS do
not want to adhere to Islamic law but rather they want to twist Islamic law to
conform to their fantasies. To this end, they pick and choose the evidences
that corroborate their misguidance, despite being weak or abrogated."[413]

Two days after the beheading of Hervé Gourdel, hundreds of Muslims gathered in
the Grand Mosque of Paris to show solidarity against the beheading. The
protest was led by the leader of the French Council of the Muslim Faith, Dalil
Boubakeur, and was joined by thousands of other Muslims around the country
under the slogan "Not in my name".[414][415] French president François
Hollande said Gourdel's beheading was "cowardly" and "cruel", and confirmed
that airstrikes would continue against ISIL in Iraq. Hollande also called for
three days of national mourning, with flags flown at half-mast throughout the
country and said that security would be increased throughout Paris.[414]

An Islamic Front sharia court judge in Aleppo, Mohamed Najeeb Bannan, stated:
"The legal reference is the Islamic Sharia. The cases are different, from
robberies to drug use, to moral crimes. It's our duty to look at any crime
that comes to us. . . After the regime has fallen, we believe that the Muslim
majority in Syria will ask for an Islamic state. Of course, it's very
important to point out that some say the Islamic Sharia will cut off people's
hands and heads, but it only applies to criminals. And to start off by
killing, crucifying etc. That is not correct at all." In response to being
asked what the difference between the Islamic Front's and ISIL's version of
sharia would be, he said, "One of their mistakes is before the regime has
fallen, and before they've established what in Sharia is called Tamkeen
[having a stable state], they started applying Sharia, thinking God gave them
permission to control the land and establish a Caliphate. This goes against
the beliefs of religious scholars around the world. This is what [IS] did
wrong. This is going to cause a lot of trouble. Anyone who opposes [IS] will
be considered against Sharia and will be severely punished."[416][417]

Al-Qaeda and al-Nusra have been trying to take advantage of ISIL's rise, by
attempting to present themselves as "moderate" compared to "extremist" ISIL,
although it has the same aim of establishing sharia and a caliphate but doing
so in a more gradual manner.[418][419][420][421][422] Al-Nusra has criticised
the way in which ISIL fully and immediately institutes sharia in the areas
that fall under its control, since it alienates people too much. It supports
the gradual, slower approach favoured by al-Qaeda, preparing society to accept
sharia and indoctrinating people through education before implementing the
hudud aspects of sharia, such as throwing gays from the top of buildings,
chopping limbs off, and public stoning.[119] Al-Nusra and ISIL are both
hostile towards the Druze. However, while al-Nusra has typically destroyed
Druze shrines and pressured them to convert to Sunni Islam, ISIL regards the
entire Druze community as a valid target for violence, as it does the
Yazidis.[423]

Ayman al-Zawahiri, the leader of al-Qaeda, has called for consultation (shura)
within the "prophetic method" to be used when establishing the caliphate,
criticising al-Baghdadi for not following the required steps. Al-Zawahiri has
called upon ISIL members to close ranks and join al-Qaeda in fighting against
Assad, the Shia, Russia, Europe, and America and to stop the infighting
between jihadist groups. He called upon jihadists to establish Islamic
entities in Egypt and the Levant, slowly implementing sharia before
establishing a caliphate, and has called for violent assaults against America
and the West.[424]

Great Pyramid of Giza lit up by images of the flags of Russia, Lebanon and
France in solidarity with victims of recent terrorist attacks, 16 November
2015

The Jaysh al-Islam group within the Islamic Front criticised ISIL, saying:
"They killed the people of Islam and leave the idol worshippers ... They use
the verses talking about the disbelievers and implement it on the
Muslims".[425] The main criticism of defectors from ISIL has been that the
group is fighting and killing other Sunni Muslims,[426] as opposed to just
non-Sunnis being brutalised.[427][428] In one case, a supposed defector from
ISIL executed two activists of a Syrian opposition group in Turkey who had
sheltered them.[429]

The current Grand Imam of al-Azhar and former president of al-Azhar
University, Ahmed el-Tayeb, has strongly condemned the Islamic State, stating
that it is acting "under the guise of this holy religion and have given
themselves the name 'Islamic State' in an attempt to export their false
Islam".[430][431] Citing the Quran, he stated: "The punishment for those who
wage war against God and his Prophet and who strive to sow corruption on earth
is death, crucifixion, the severing of hands and feet on opposite sides or
banishment from the land. This is the disgrace for them in this world and in
the hereafter they will receive grievous torment." Although el-Tayeb has been
criticised for not expressly stating that the Islamic State is
heretical,[432][433] the Ash'ari school of Islamic theology, to which el-Tayeb
belongs, does not allow calling a person who follows the shahada an
apostate.[432] El-Tayeb has strongly come out against the practice of
takfirism (declaring a Muslim an apostate) which is used by the Islamic State
to "judge and accuse anyone who doesn’t tow their line with apostasy and
outside the realm of the faith" declaring "Jihad on peaceful Muslims" using
"flawed interpretations of some Qur’anic texts, the prophet's Sunna, and the
Imams’ views believing incorrectly, that they are leaders of Muslim armies
fighting infidel peoples, in unbelieving lands".[434]

In late December 2015, nearly 70,000 Indian Muslim clerics associated with the
Indian Barelvi movement issued a fatwa condemning ISIL and similar
organisations, saying they are "not Islamic organisations". Approximately 1.5
million Sunni Muslim followers of this movement have formally decried violent
extremists.[435][436][437]

Mehdi Hasan, a political journalist in the UK, said in the _New Statesman_ ,

> Whether Sunni or Shia, Salafi or Sufi, conservative or liberal, Muslims –
and Muslim leaders – have almost unanimously condemned and denounced ISIL not
merely as un-Islamic but actively anti-Islamic.[395]

Hassan Hassan, an analyst at the Delma Institute, wrote in _The Guardian_ that
because the Islamic State "bases its teachings on religious texts that
mainstream Muslim clerics do not want to deal with head on, new recruits leave
the camp feeling that they have stumbled on the true message of Islam".[104]
In mid-February 2015, Graeme Wood, a lecturer in political science at Yale
University, said in _The Atlantic_ , "The religion preached by its most ardent
followers derives from coherent and even learned interpretations of
Islam."[113]

Yusuf al-Qaradawi, an Egyptian Islamic theologian based in Qatar, said in his
official website that the "United Arab Emirates (UAE) and the leaders of Daesh
(ISIS/ISIL) terrorist group are from one species and they are two sides of the
same coin".[438]

#### Designation as a terrorist organisation

See also: List of designated terrorist organisations and Terrorism

Organisation | Date | Body | References  
---|---|---|---  
Multinational organisations  
 United Nations | 18 October 2004 (as al-Qaeda in Iraq)  
30 May 2013 (after separation from al‑Qaeda) | United Nations Security Council
| [439][440][441]  
 European Union | 2004 | EU Council (via adoption of UN al-Qaeda Sanctions
List) | [442]  
Nations  
 United Kingdom | March 2001 (as part of al-Qaeda)  
20 June 2014 (after separation from al‑Qaeda) | Home Secretary of the Home
Office | [443]  
 United States | 17 December 2004 (as al-Qaeda in Iraq) | United States
Department of State | [444]  
 Australia | 2 March 2005 (as al-Qaeda in Iraq)  
14 December 2013 (after separation from al‑Qaeda) | Attorney-General for
Australia | [445]  
 Canada | 20 August 2012 | Parliament of Canada | [446]  
 Turkey | 30 October 2013 | Grand National Assembly of Turkey | [447][448]  
 Saudi Arabia | 7 March 2014 | Royal decree of the King of Saudi Arabia |
[449]  
 Indonesia | 1 August 2014 | National Counter-terrorism Agency BNPT | [450]  
 United Arab Emirates | 20 August 2014 | United Arab Emirates Cabinet | [451]  
 Malaysia | 24 September 2014 | Ministry of Foreign Affairs | [452]  
 Egypt | 30 November 2014 | The Cairo Court for Urgent Matters | [453][454]  
 India | 16 December 2014 | Ministry of Home Affairs | [455][456]  
 Russian Federation | 29 December 2014 | Supreme Court of Russia | [457]  
 Kyrgyzstan | 25 March 2015 | Kyrgyz State Committee of National Security |
[458]  
 Syria |  |  | [459]  
 Jordan |  |  | [460]  
 Iran |  |  | [461][462][463][464][465]  
 Iraq |  |  | [466]  
 Trinidad and Tobago |  |  | [467]  
 Pakistan | 29 August 2015 | Ministry of Interior | [468]  
 Republic of China (Taiwan) | 26 November 2015 | National Security Bureau |
[469]  
 People's Republic of China |  | Ministry of Public Security | [470]  
  
The United Nations Security Council in its Resolution 1267 (1999) described
Osama bin Laden and his al-Qaeda associates as operators of a network of
terrorist training camps.[471] The UN's Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee first
listed ISIL in its Sanctions List under the name "Al-Qaida in Iraq" on 18
October 2004, as an entity/group associated with al-Qaeda. On 2 June 2014, the
group was added to its listing under the name "Islamic State in Iraq and the
Levant". The European Union adopted the UN Sanctions List in 2002.[442]

People lay flowers outside the French embassy in Moscow in memory of the
victims of the November 2015 Paris attacks.

Many world leaders and government spokespeople have called ISIL a terrorist
group or banned it, without their countries having formally designated it as
such. The following are examples:

The Government of Germany banned ISIL in September 2014. Activities banned
include donations to the group, recruiting fighters, holding ISIL meetings and
distributing its propaganda, flying ISIL flags,[472] wearing ISIL symbols and
all ISIL activities. "The terror organisation Islamic State is a threat to
public safety in Germany as well", said German politician Thomas de Maizière.
He added, "Today's ban is directed solely against terrorists who abuse
religion for their criminal goals."[473] Being a member of ISIL is also
illegal in accordance with § 129a and § 129b of the German criminal code.[474]

In October 2014, Switzerland banned ISIL's activities in the country,
including propaganda and financial support of the fighters, with prison
sentences as potential penalties.[475]

In mid-December 2014, India banned ISIL after the arrest of an operator of a
pro-ISIL Twitter account.[476]

Pakistan designated ISIL as a banned organisation in late August 2015, under
which all elements expressing sympathy for the group would be blacklisted and
sanctioned.[468]

Media sources worldwide have described ISIL as a terrorist
organisation.[55][150][188][163][450][477]

#### Militia, territorial authority and other classifications

By 2014, ISIL was increasingly being viewed as a militia rather than just a
terrorist group.[478] As major Iraqi cities fell to ISIL in June 2014, Jessica
Lewis, a former US Army intelligence officer at the Institute for the Study of
War, described ISIL at that time as

> not a terrorism problem anymore, [but rather] an army on the move in Iraq
and Syria, and they are taking terrain. They have shadow governments in and
around Baghdad, and they have an aspirational goal to govern. I don't know
whether they want to control Baghdad, or if they want to destroy the functions
of the Iraqi state, but either way the outcome will be disastrous for
Iraq.[478]

Supporters of the Turkish Labour Party protesting in London following the 2015
Ankara bombings

Lewis has called ISIL

> an advanced military leadership. They have incredible command and control
and they have a sophisticated reporting mechanism from the field that can
relay tactics and directives up and down the line. They are well-financed, and
they have big sources of manpower, not just the foreign fighters, but also
prisoner escapees.[478]

Former US Defense Secretary Chuck Hagel saw an "imminent threat to every
interest we have", but former top counter-terrorism adviser Daniel Benjamin
derided such talk as a "farce" that panics the public.[479]

Former British Foreign Secretary David Miliband concluded that the 2003
invasion of Iraq caused the creation of ISIL.[480]

Writing for _The Guardian_ , Pankaj Mishra rejects the idea that the group is
a resurgence of medieval Islam, saying instead:

> In actuality, Isis is the canniest of all traders in the flourishing
international economy of disaffection: the most resourceful among all those
who offer the security of collective identity to isolated and fearful
individuals. It promises, along with others who retail racial, national and
religious supremacy, to release the anxiety and frustrations of the private
life into the violence of the global.[481]

A certain change of attitude occurred following the inauguration of US
President Trump. On January 28, 2017, he issued a National Security
Presidential Memorandum which called for a comprehensive plan to destroy ISIS
to be formulated by the Defense Department within 30 days.[482]

## Supporters

According to a June 2015 Reuters report that cited "jihadist ideologues" as a
source, 90% of ISIL's fighters in Iraq are Iraqi, and 70% of its fighters in
Syria are Syrian. The article stated that the group has 40,000 fighters and
60,000 supporters across its two primary strongholds in Iraq and Syria.[45]
According to scholar Fawaz Gerges writing in _ISIS: A History_ , some "30
percent of the senior figures" in ISIL's military command are former army and
police officers from the disbanded Iraqi security forces, drawn to ISIL by the
US De-Ba'athification policy and turned towards Sunni Islamism, following the
US invasion of Iraq.[148]

According to a poll by Pew Research Center, Muslim populations of various
countries have overwhelmingly negative views of ISIS with Lebanon having the
most unfavorable views.[483][484] In most of these countries, concerns about
Islamic extremism have been growing.[485]

### Allegations of state support

#### Saudi Arabia

See also: Response of Saudi Arabia to ISIL

Although Saudi Arabia's government rejected the claims,[486] former Iraqi
Prime Minister Nouri al-Maliki accused Saudi Arabia of funding ISIL.[487] Some
media outlets, such as NBC, the BBC and _The New York Times_ , and the US-
based think tank Washington Institute for Near East Policy have written about
individual Saudi donations to the group and the Saudi state's decade-long
sponsorship of Wahhabism around the world, but have concluded that there is no
evidence of direct Saudi state support for ISIL.[488][489]

Richard Dearlove, former head of Britain's Secret Intelligence Service (MI6),
said that the Saudis were "deeply attracted to any militancy that can
effectively challenge Shia-dom [Shia version of Islam]."[490] Dearlove stated
that, "For ISIS to be able to surge into the Sunni areas of Iraq in the way
that it has done recently has to be the consequence of substantial and
sustained funding."[491]

In an August 2014 email, leaked by WikiLeaks, former US Secretary of State
Hillary Clinton sent then counselor to Barack Obama John Podesta a memo that
states that both Saudi Arabia and Qatar "are providing clandestine financial
and logistic support to ISIL and other radical Sunni groups in the
region".[492][493][494]

#### Syria

Further information: Bashar al-Assad § Al-Qaeda and ISIL

Proportion of attacks by ISIL on other groups in Syria, during the period from
March 2016 – April 2017 according to IHS Markit.[495]

  Syrian Army (43%)

  Sunni rebels (40%)

  SDF (17%)

During the ongoing Syrian Civil War, President Bashar al-Assad, the Syrian
Government, and the Syrian Alawite community[496] have been accused by many
opposition and anti-Assad parties of collusion with ISIL, despite massacres of
Alawite civilians and executions of captured Syrian Army Alawite
soldiers.[497][498][499][500][501] Several sources have claimed Islamist
prisoners were strategically released from Syrian prisons at the beginning of
the Syrian Civil War in 2011.[502]

The Syrian Government has bought oil directly from ISIL,[503] and the Syrian
government and ISIL jointly run a HESCO gas plant in Tabqah. The facility
supplies electricity to government-held areas, and government-run power plants
supply ISIL-held areas.[504] The Syrian government has tactically avoided ISIL
forces in order to weaken opposition such as the Free Syrian Army (FSA),[501]
and according to United States Secretary of State John Kerry the Syrian
government has purposely ceded territory to ISIL.[505] An IHS Jane's Terrorism
and Insurgency Center database analysis confirmed that only 6% of Syrian
government forces attacks were targeted at ISIL from January to November 2014,
while in the same period only 13% of all ISIL attacks targeted government
forces.[506] The National Coalition for Syrian Revolutionary and Opposition
Forces has stated that the Syrian government has operatives inside ISIL,[507]
as has the leadership of Ahrar ash-Sham.[508] A report on 25 June 2015 said
that ISIL kept gas flowing to Assad regime-controlled power stations.
Furthermore, ISIL allowed grain to pass from the Kurdish-held north-east to
regime controlled areas at the cost of a 25% levy.[509]

On 1 June 2015, the United States embassy in Syria stated that the Syrian
government was "making air-strikes in support" of an ISIL advance on Syrian
opposition positions north of Aleppo.[510] The president of the Syrian
National Coalition, Khaled Koja, accused Assad of acting "as an air force for
[ISIL]",[511] with the Defence Minister of the SNC Salim Idris stating that
approximately 180 Syrian government officers were serving in ISIL and
coordinating the group's attacks with the Syrian Arab Army.[512]

However, in an April 2017 report, IHS Markit, the leading UK security and
defense information provider, stated that the Islamic State fought Syrian
government forces more than any other opponent between 1 April 2016 and 31
March 2017. According to the report "43 percent of all Islamic State fighting
in Syria was directed against President Assad’s forces, 17 against the
U.S.-backed Syrian Democratic Forces (SDF) and the remaining 40 percent
involved fighting rival Sunni opposition groups".[495]

#### Turkey

Further information: Turkish involvement in the Syrian Civil War § Related
criticism of Turkey

Turkey has been accused by experts, Syrian Kurds, and United States Vice-
President Joe Biden of supporting or colluding with ISIL.[513][514][515] A
raid by US special forces on a compound housing the Islamic State's "chief
financial officer", Abu Sayyaf, in July 2015, produced evidence that Turkish
officials dealt directly with ranking ISIL members. According to a senior
Western official, documents and flash drives seized during the Sayyaf raid
revealed links "so clear" and "undeniable" between Turkey and ISIL "that they
could end up having profound policy implications for the relationship between
us and Ankara".[513]

Journalist Patrick Cockburn wrote in November 2014 of "strong evidence for a
degree of collaboration" between the Turkish intelligence services and ISIL,
although the "exact nature of the relationship ... remains cloudy".[516] In
July 2014, Cockburn stated that "Saudi Arabia has created a Frankenstein's
monster over which it is rapidly losing control. The same is true of its
allies such as Turkey which has been a vital back-base for Isis and Jabhat al-
Nusra by keeping the 820-kilometer-long (510 mi) Turkish-Syrian border
open."[490] David L. Phillips of Columbia University's Institute for the Study
of Human Rights, who compiled a list of allegations and claims accusing Turkey
of assisting ISIL, wrote that these allegations "range from military
cooperation and weapons transfers to logistical support, financial assistance,
and the provision of medical services".[517] Several ISIL fighters and
commanders have claimed that Turkey supports ISIL.[518][519][520] Within
Turkey itself, ISIL is believed to have caused increasing political
polarisation between secularists and Islamists.[521]

Turkey has been further criticised for allowing individuals from outside the
region to enter its territory and join ISIL in Syria.[522][523] With many
Islamist fighters passing through Turkey to fight in Syria, Turkey has been
accused of becoming a transit country for such fighters and has been labelled
the "Gateway to Jihad".[524] Turkish border patrol officers are reported to
have deliberately overlooked those entering Syria, upon payment of a small
bribe.[524] A report by Sky News exposed documents showing that passports of
foreign Islamists wanting to join ISIL by crossing into Syria had been stamped
by the Turkish government.[525] An ISIL commander stated that "most of the
fighters who joined us in the beginning of the war came via Turkey, and so did
our equipment and supplies",[517][520] adding that ISIL fighters received
treatment in Turkish hospitals.[520]

#### Qatar

Qatar has long been accused of acting as a conduit for the flow of funds to
ISIL. While there is no proof that the Qatari government is behind the
movement of funds from the gas-rich nation to ISIL, it has been criticised for
not doing enough to stem the flow of financing. Private donors within Qatar,
sympathetic to the aims of radical groups such as al-Nusra Front and ISIL, are
believed to be channeling their resources to support these
organisations.[526][527] According to the US Treasury Department, a number of
terrorist financiers have been operating in Qatar. Qatari citizen Abd Al-
Rahman al-Nuaimi has served as an interlocutor between Qatari donors and
leaders of al-Qaeda in Iraq (AQI). Nuaimi reportedly oversaw the transfer of
US$2 million per month to AQI over a period of time. He is also one of several
of Qatar-based al-Qaeda financiers sanctioned by the US Treasury in recent
years. According to some reports, US officials believe that the largest
portion of private donations supporting ISIS and al Qaeda-linked groups now
comes from Qatar rather than Saudi Arabia.[528]

In August 2014, a German minister Gerd Müller accused Qatar of having links to
ISIL, stating: "You have to ask who is arming, who is financing ISIS troops.
The keyword there is Qatar." Qatari Foreign Minister Khalid bin Mohammad Al
Attiyah rejected this statement, saying: "Qatar does not support extremist
groups, including [ISIL], in any way. We are repelled by their views, their
violent methods and their ambitions."[529][530][531][532]

#### United States

Rand Paul, junior U.S. Senator from Kentucky, has accused the U.S. government
of indirectly supporting ISIL in the Syrian Civil War, by arming their allies
and fighting their enemies in that country. The US has assisted the moderate
Syrian opposition (see CIA-led Timber Sycamore operation), but whether that
assistance has been commandeered by ISIS allies remains unclear.[533]

On 12 September 2014, several media outlets began reporting that the Free
Syrian Army had signed a "non-aggression pact" with ISIS in order to focus
their attentions elsewhere.[534][535] These reports later proved to be false,
as opposition soldiers and activists on the ground reported continued fighting
between the two groups. According to Mohammed Alaa Ghanem, director of
government relations for the Syrian American Council, "The only report we have
received on anything resembling a ceasefire was that ISIS and Sons of Golan,
an FSA brigade outside Damascus, halted fighting for 24 hours to collect
bodies before hostilities resumed."[536] "FSA commanders declared that they
will continue that fight until ISIS is completely eradicated in Damascus
suburbs. No truce or cease fire with ISIS," said Syrian National Coalition
spokesman Monzer Abkik.[537]

#### Foreign nationals

A United Nations report from May 2015[update] showed that 25,000 "foreign
terrorist fighters" from 100 countries had joined "Islamist" groups, many of
them working for ISIL or al-Qaeda.[538] The US-trained commander of
Tajikistan's Interior Ministry OMON police special forces, Gulmurod Khalimov,
has been raised to the rank of "Minister of War" within the Islamic
State.[36][539]

The commander for the Islamic State in Syria, Abu Omar al-Shishani, served
previously as a sergeant in the Georgian Army.[540]

A 2015 report by the Program on Extremism at George Washington University
found 71 individuals charged in the United States with supporting ISIL, 250
travelling or attempting to travel to Syria or Iraq from the United States to
join ISIL, and about 900 active domestic ISIL-related investigations.[541]

An October 2016 World Bank study found that "ISIL’s foreign fighters are
surprisingly well-educated."[542] Using the fighters' self-reported
educational levels, the study concluded that "69% of recruits reported at
least a secondary-level education"[542] of which "a large fraction have gone
on to study at university"[543] and also that "only 15% of recruits left
school before high school; less than 2% are illiterate."[542][543] The study
also found that foreign fighters are often more educated than their countrymen
where those "from Europe and in Central Asia have similar levels of education
to their countrymen" while those "from the Middle East, North Africa, and
South and East Asia are significantly more educated than what is typical in
their home nations."[542] The report notes that its conclusions that terrorism
is not driven by poverty and low levels of education does not conform with
previous research.[542] However, the report did find a strong correlation
"between a country’s male unemployment rate and the propensity of the country
to supply foreign fighters" leading the report to recommend that governments
pursue a policy of lowering the unemployment rate among the educated as a
counter-terrorism strategy.[542]

#### Groups expressing support for ISIL

The Terrorism Research and Analysis Consortium (TRAC) has identified 60
jihadist groups in 30 countries that have pledged allegiance to or support for
ISIL as of mid-November 2014. That many of these groups were previously
affiliated with al-Qaeda suggests a shift in global jihadist leadership
towards ISIL.[544]

Members of the following groups have declared support for ISIL, either fully
or in part:

  * Boko Haram[545]
  * Ansar al-Sharia (Tunisia)[546][547]
  * Jund al-Khilafah[548]
  * Mujahideen Shura Council in the Environs of Jerusalem[383]
  * Jamaah Ansharut Tauhid[549] – (pledged support to ISIL; the majority of the group split off after its leader pledged allegiance to ISIL)[549][550]
  * Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan[551][552]
  * Jundallah (Pakistan)[76]
  * Caucasus Emirate (multiple Caucasus Emirate commanders switched allegiance to ISIL)[379][553][554]
  * Sheikh Omar Hadid Brigade[386]
  * Khalifa Islamiyah Mindanao
    * Jemaah Islamiyah[555]
    * Abu Sayyaf[77][556]
    * Bangsamoro Islamic Freedom Fighters[557]
    * Ansar Khalifa Philippines

### Countries and groups at war with ISIL

A map of all state-based opponents of ISIL  
     Combined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve  
     Other state based opponents  
     Territories held by ISIL at its late 2015 peak

ISIL's claims to territory have brought it into armed conflict with many
governments, militias and other armed groups. International rejection of ISIL
as a terrorist entity and rejection of its claim to even exist have placed it
in conflict with countries around the world.

### The Global Coalition to Counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

See also: Military intervention against ISIL § International coalitions
against ISIL, and Combined Joint Task Force – Operation Inherent Resolve

Airstrikes in Syria by 24 September 2014

The Global Coalition to Counter the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
(ISIL), also referred to as the Counter-ISIL Coalition or Counter-DAESH
Coalition,[558] is a US-led group of nations and non-state actors that have
committed to "work together under a common, multifaceted, and long-term
strategy to degrade and defeat ISIL/Daesh". According to a joint statement
issued by 59 national governments and the European Union on 3 December 2014,
participants in the Counter-ISIL Coalition are focused on multiple lines of
effort:[559]

  1. Supporting military operations, capacity building, and training;
  2. Stopping the flow of foreign terrorist fighters;
  3. Cutting off ISIL/Daesh's access to financing and funding;
  4. Addressing associated humanitarian relief and crises; and
  5. Exposing ISIL/Daesh's true nature (ideological delegitimisation).

Operation Inherent Resolve is the operational name given by the US to military
operations against ISIL and Syrian al-Qaeda affiliates. Combined Joint Task
Force – Operation Inherent Resolve (CJTF–OIR) is co-ordinating the military
portion of the response.

The Arab League, European Union, NATO, and GCC are part of the Counter-ISIL
Coalition:[559]

#### Other state opponents not part of the Counter-ISIL Coalition

See also: Russia–Syria–Iran–Iraq coalition

Iran[560] – military advisors, training, ground troops, and air power in Iraq
and Syria, beside Iranian borders ( _seeIranian intervention in Iraq_ )

Russian Sukhoi Su-34 in Syria

Russia[561][562] – arms supplier to Iraqi and Syrian governments. In June
2014, the Iraqi army received Russian Sukhoi Su-25 and Sukhoi Su-30 fighter
aircraft to combat the ISIL.[563] Security operations within state borders in
2015.[564][565] Airstrikes in Syria (see Russian military intervention in the
Syrian Civil War).[566][567][568]

Azerbaijan[569][570] – security operations within state borders

Pakistan – Military deployment over Saudi Arabia-Iraq border. Arresting ISIL
figures in Pakistan.[571][572][573]

#### Other non-state opponents

al-Qaeda[51]

  * al-Nusra Front[574]—with localised truces and co-operation at times
  * al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula[302] Syriac Military Council
  * al-Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb[575]
  * Al-Shabaab[576]

Taliban[577][578]

Hamas[579]  

Kurdish YPG fighters

Kurdistan Workers' Party—ground troops in Iraqi Kurdistan and in Syrian
Kurdistan[580]  
Hezbollah[581]  
Houthis—Shia faction in Yemen, fighting for control of the country[582]

#### Al-Qaeda

Al-Nusra Front is a branch of al-Qaeda operating in Syria. Al-Nusra has
launched many attacks and bombings, mostly against targets affiliated with or
supportive of the Syrian government.[583] There have been media reports that
many of al-Nusra's foreign fighters have left to join al-Baghdadi's ISIL.[584]

In February 2014, after continued tensions, al-Qaeda publicly disavowed any
relations with ISIL.[275] However, ISIL and al-Nusra Front still cooperate
with each other occasionally when they fight against the Syrian
government.[585][586][587]

> The two groups [ISIL and al-Nusra] share a nihilistic worldview, a loathing
for modernity, and for the West. They subscribe to the same perverted
interpretations of Islam. Other common traits include a penchant for suicide
attacks, and sophisticated exploitation of the internet and social media. Like
ISIL, several Al Qaeda franchises are interested in taking and holding
territory; AQAP has been much less successful at it. The main differences
between Al Qaeda and ISIL are largely political—and personal. Over the past
decade, Al Qaeda has twice embraced ISIL (and its previous manifestations) as
brothers-in-arms.

>

> — "ISIL and Al Qaeda: Terror's frenemies", _Quartz_[588]

On 10 September 2015, an audio message was released by al-Qaeda's leader Ayman
al-Zawahiri criticising ISIL's self-proclaimed caliphate and accusing it of
"sedition". This was described by some media outlets as a "declaration of
war".[589] However, although al-Zawahiri denied ISIL's legitimacy, he
suggested that there was still room for cooperation against common enemies,
and said that if he were in Iraq, he would fight alongside ISIL.[590]

## Human rights abuse and war crime findings

Main article: Human rights in ISIL-controlled territory

In July 2014, the BBC reported the United Nations' chief investigator as
stating: "Fighters from the Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) may be
added to a list of war crimes suspects in Syria."[591] By June 2014, according
to United Nations reports, ISIL had killed hundreds of prisoners of war[592]
and over 1,000 civilians.[ _citation needed_ ]

In November 2014, the UN Commission of Inquiry on Syria said that ISIL was
committing crimes against humanity.[593][594] A report by Human Rights Watch
in November 2014 accused ISIL groups in control of Derna, Libya of war crimes
and human rights abuses and of terrorising residents. Human Rights Watch
documented three apparent summary executions and at least ten public floggings
by the Islamic Youth Shura Council, which joined ISIL in November. It also
documented the beheading of three Derna residents and dozens of seemingly
politically motivated assassinations of judges, public officials, members of
the security forces and others. Sarah Leah Watson, Director of HRW Middle East
and North Africa, said: "Commanders should understand that they may face
domestic or international prosecution for the grave rights abuses their forces
are committing."[595]

Speaking of ISIL's methods, the United Nations Commission on Human Rights has
stated that the group "seeks to subjugate civilians under its control and
dominate every aspect of their lives through terror, indoctrination, and the
provision of services to those who obey".[160]

### Religious and minority group persecution

See also: Arabization, Genocide of Christians by ISIL, Genocide of Shias by
ISIL, and Genocide of Yazidis by ISIL

Yazidi refugees on Mount Sinjar in August 2014

ISIL compels people in the areas that it controls to live according to its
interpretation of sharia law.[163][596] There have been many reports of the
group's use of death threats, torture and mutilation to compel conversion to
Islam,[163][596] and of clerics being killed for refusal to pledge allegiance
to the so-called "Islamic State".[597] ISIL directs violence against Shia
Muslims, Alawites, Assyrian, Chaldean, Syriac and Armenian Christians,
Yazidis, Druze, Shabaks and Mandeans in particular.[598]

ISIL fighters are targeting Syria's minority Alawite sect.[496][497] The
Islamic State and affiliated jihadist groups reportedly took the lead in an
offensive on Alawite villages in Latakia Governorate of Syria in August
2013.[498][599]

Amnesty International has held ISIL responsible for the ethnic cleansing of
ethnic and religious minority groups in northern Iraq on a "historic scale",
putting entire communities "at risk of being wiped off the map of Iraq". In a
special report released on 2 September 2014, the organization described how
ISIL had "systematically targeted non-Arab and non-Sunni Muslim communities,
killing or abducting hundreds, possibly thousands, of individuals and forcing
more than 830,000 others to flee the areas it has captured since 10 June
2014". Among these people were Assyrian Christians, Turkmen Shia, Shabak Shia,
Kaka'i, Yazidis and Sabean Mandeans, who have lived together for centuries in
Nineveh province, large parts of which have come under ISIL's
control.[66][600]

Among the known killings of religious and minority group civilians carried out
by ISIL are those in the villages and towns of Quiniyeh (70–90 Yazidis
killed), Hardan (60 Yazidis killed), Sinjar (500–2,000 Yazidis killed), Ramadi
Jabal (60–70 Yazidis killed), Dhola (50 Yazidis killed), Khana Sor (100
Yazidis killed), Hardan (250–300 Yazidis killed), al-Shimal (dozens of Yazidis
killed), Khocho (400 Yazidis killed and 1,000 abducted), Jadala (14 Yazidis
killed)[601] and Beshir (700 Shia Turkmen killed),[602] and others committed
near Mosul (670 Shia inmates of the Badush prison killed),[602] and in Tal
Afar prison, Iraq (200 Yazidis killed for refusing conversion).[601] The UN
estimated that 5,000 Yazidis were killed by ISIL during the takeover of parts
of northern Iraq in August 2014.[603] In late May 2014, 150 Kurdish boys from
Kobani aged 14–16 were abducted and subjected to torture and abuse, according
to Human Rights Watch.[604] In the Syrian towns of Ghraneij, Abu Haman and
Kashkiyeh 700 members of the Sunni Al-Shaitat tribe were killed for attempting
an uprising against ISIL control.[605][606] The UN reported that in June 2014
ISIL had killed a number of Sunni Islamic clerics who refused to pledge
allegiance to it.[597]

Christians living in areas under ISIL control face four options: converting to
Islam, paying a religious levy called the jizya, leaving the "Caliphate", or
death.[607][608] "We offer them three choices: Islam; the dhimma contract –
involving payment of jizya; if they refuse this they will have nothing but the
sword", ISIL said.[609][610] ISIL leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi further noted
that Christians who do not agree with those terms must "leave the borders of
the Islamic Caliphate" within a specified deadline.[609][610] ISIL had already
set similar rules for Christians in Raqqa, once one of Syria's more liberal
cities.[611][612] However, on 29 March 2016, ISIL issued a decree preventing
Christians and Armenians from leaving Raqqa.[613]

On 23 February 2015, in response to a major Kurdish offensive in the Al-
Hasakah Governorate, ISIL abducted 150 Assyrian Christians from villages near
Tal Tamr (Tell Tamer) in northeastern Syria, after launching a large offensive
in the region.[614][615]

Kurdish officials have claimed that ISIL's campaign against Kurdish and Yezidi
enclaves, such as Sinjar, are part of an organised Arabization plan.[616]

### Treatment of civilians

See also: Killing of captives by ISIL

During the Iraqi conflict in 2014, ISIL released dozens of videos showing its
ill treatment of civilians, many of whom had apparently been targeted on the
basis of their religion or ethnicity. Navi Pillay, UN High Commissioner for
Human Rights, warned of war crimes being committed in the Iraqi war zone, and
disclosed a UN report of ISIL militants murdering Iraqi Army soldiers and 17
civilians in a single street in Mosul. The UN reported that in the 17 days
from 5 to 22 June, ISIL killed more than 1,000 Iraqi civilians and injured
more than 1,000.[617][618][619] After ISIL released photographs of its
fighters shooting scores of young men, the UN declared that cold-blooded
"executions" by militants in northern Iraq almost certainly amounted to war
crimes.[620]

ISIL's advance in Iraq in mid-2014 was accompanied by continuing violence in
Syria. On 29 May, ISIL raided a village in Syria and at least 15 civilians
were killed, including, according to Human Rights Watch, at least six
children.[621] A hospital in the area confirmed that it had received 15 bodies
on the same day.[622] The Syrian Observatory for Human Rights reported that on
1 June, a 102-year-old man was killed along with his whole family in a village
in Hama province.[623] According to Reuters, 1,878 people were killed in Syria
by ISIL during the last six months of 2014, most of them civilians.[624]

In Mosul, ISIL has implemented a sharia school curriculum which bans the
teaching of art, music, national history, literature and Christianity.
Although Charles Darwin's theory of evolution has never been taught in Iraqi
schools, the subject has been banned from the school curriculum. Patriotic
songs have been declared blasphemous, and orders have been given to remove
certain pictures from school textbooks.[625][626][627][628] Iraqi parents have
largely boycotted schools in which the new curriculum has been
introduced.[629]

After capturing cities in Iraq, ISIL issued guidelines on how to wear clothes
and veils. ISIL warned women in the city of Mosul to wear full-face veils or
face severe punishment.[630] A cleric told Reuters in Mosul that ISIL gunmen
had ordered him to read out the warning in his mosque when worshippers
gathered. ISIL ordered the faces of both male and female mannequins to be
covered, in an order which also banned the use of naked mannequins.[631] In
Raqqa the group uses its two battalions of female fighters in the city to
enforce compliance by women with its strict laws on individual conduct.[632]

ISIL released 16 notes labelled "Contract of the City", a set of rules aimed
at civilians in Nineveh. One rule stipulated that women should stay at home
and not go outside unless necessary. Another rule said that stealing would be
punished by amputation.[633][634] In addition to the Muslim custom of banning
the sale and use of alcohol, ISIL has banned the sale and use of cigarettes
and hookah pipes. It has also banned "music and songs in cars, at parties, in
shops and in public, as well as photographs of people in shop windows".[635]

According to _The Economist_ , Saudi practices also followed by the group
include the establishment of religious police to root out "vice" and enforce
attendance at salat prayers, the widespread use of capital punishment, and the
destruction of Christian churches and non-Sunni mosques or their conversion to
other uses.[109]

ISIL carried out executions on both men and women who were accused of various
acts and found guilty of crimes against Islam such as sodomy,[636] adultery,
usage and possession of contraband, rape, blasphemy, witchcraft,[637]
renouncing Islam and murder. Before the accused are executed their charges are
read to them and the spectators. Executions take various forms, including
stoning to death, crucifixions, beheadings, burning people alive, and throwing
people from tall buildings.[638][639][640][641] The Islamic State in Iraq
frequently carries out mass executions in Mosul and Hawija.

The Islamic State militants were accused of using civilian residents of towns
as human shields.[642] The _Telegraph_ reported that "Extremist fighters are
deliberately hiding among civilian buildings and residents to try to prevent
strikes."[643][644] Civil rights activist told ARA News that "ISIS militants
prevent the people of Manbij and Jarablus from leaving their hometowns despite
the fierce airstrikes by Russian warplanes".[645] The use of human shields and
executions of civilians who tried to flee continued in Iraq right through
until the group lost is final major urban territory there after its defeat in
the Battle for Mosul in July 2017.[646]

###  Child soldiers

See also: Military use of children

According to a report by the magazine _Foreign Policy_ , children as young as
six are recruited or kidnapped and sent to military and religious training
camps, where they practice beheading with dolls and are indoctrinated with the
religious views of ISIL.[647] Children are used as human shields on front
lines and to provide blood transfusions for Islamic State soldiers,[647]
according to Shelly Whitman of the Roméo Dallaire Child Soldiers Initiative.
The second instalment of a Vice News documentary about ISIL focused on how the
group is specifically grooming children for the future. A spokesman told VICE
News that those under the age of 15 go to sharia camp to learn about religion,
while those older than 16 can go to military training camp.[647] Children are
also used for propaganda. According to a UN report, "In mid-August, ISIL
entered a cancer hospital in Mosul, forced at least two sick children to hold
the ISIL flag and posted the pictures on the internet." Misty Buswell, a Save
the Children representative working with refugees in Jordan, said, "It's not
an exaggeration to say we could lose a whole generation of children to
trauma."[648] A UN report indicated that at least 89 children, mostly from the
ages of 12 to 16 had been killed fighting for the Islamic State in 2015, 39%
of which died in suicide bombing attacks.[649] Der Spiegel estimated in 2016
that 1,500 boys were serving as child soldiers for ISIL.[647] It was reported
that on 12 March 2017, ISIS used 6 child suicide bombers against the Syrian
Army soldiers besieged in Deir Ez-zor.[650]

### Sexual violence and slavery

Further information: Sexual violence in the Iraqi insurgency and Slavery in
21st-century Islamism

See also: Islamic views on slavery, Ma malakat aymanukum, Raptio, and Wartime
sexual violence

Sexual violence perpetrated by ISIL includes using rape as a weapon of
war;[651] instituting forced marriages to its fighters;[652] and trading women
and girls as sex slaves.[653]

There are many reports of sexual abuse and enslavement in ISIL-controlled
areas of women and girls, predominantly from the minority Christian and Yazidi
communities.[654][655] Fighters are told that they are free to have sex with
or rape non-Muslim captive women.[656] Haleh Esfandiari from the Woodrow
Wilson International Center for Scholars has highlighted the abuse of local
women by ISIL militants after they have captured an area. "They usually take
the older women to a makeshift slave market and try to sell them. The younger
girls ... are raped or married off to fighters", she said, adding, "It's based
on temporary marriages, and once these fighters have had sex with these young
girls, they just pass them on to other fighters."[657]

The capture of Iraqi cities by the group in June 2014 was accompanied by an
upsurge in crimes against women, including kidnap and rape.[658][659][660]
According to Martin Williams in _The Citizen_ , some hard-line Salafists
apparently regard extramarital sex with multiple partners as a legitimate form
of holy war and it is "difficult to reconcile this with a religion where some
adherents insist that women must be covered from head to toe, with only a
narrow slit for the eyes".[661]

As of August 2015, the trade in sex slaves appeared to remain restricted to
Yazidi women and girls.[653] It has reportedly become a recruiting technique
to attract men from conservative Muslim societies, where dating and casual sex
are not allowed.[653] Nazand Begikhani said of the Yazidi victims, "These
women have been treated like cattle ... They have been subjected to physical
and sexual violence, including systematic rape and sex slavery. They've been
exposed in markets in Mosul and in Raqqa, Syria, carrying price tags."[662]
According to UN Reports the price list for IS sex slaves range from 40 to 160
US dollars. The younger the slave the more expensive. Girls and boys between
the age 1–9 are referred to as the most expensive, with the cheapest being
women between 40 and 50 years old.[663] According to another source the price
of a slave equals the price of an AK-47.[664]

A United Nations report issued on 2 October 2014, based on 500 interviews with
witnesses, said that ISIL took 450–500 women and girls to Iraq's Nineveh
region in August, where "150 unmarried girls and women, predominantly from the
Yazidi and Christian communities, were reportedly transported to Syria, either
to be given to ISIL fighters as a reward or to be sold as sex slaves".[655] In
mid-October, the UN confirmed that 5,000–7,000 Yazidi women and children had
been abducted by ISIL and sold into slavery.[603][665] In November 2014 _The
New York Times_ reported on the accounts given by five who escaped ISIL of
their captivity and abuse.[666] In December 2014, the Iraqi Ministry of Human
Rights announced that ISIL had killed over 150 women and girls in Fallujah who
refused to participate in sexual jihad.[667] Non-Muslim women have reportedly
been married off to fighters against their will. ISIL claims the women provide
the new converts and children necessary to spread ISIL's control.[668]

Shortly after the death of US hostage Kayla Mueller was confirmed on 10
February 2015,[669] several media outlets reported that the US intelligence
community believed she may have been given as a wife to an ISIL
fighter.[670][671][672] In August 2015 it was confirmed that she had been
forced into marriage[673] to Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, who raped her
repeatedly.[674][673][675] The Mueller family was informed by the US Federal
Bureau of Investigation (FBI) that Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi had sexually abused
Ms. Mueller, and that Ms. Mueller had also been tortured.[675] Abu Sayyaf's
widow, Umm Sayyaf, confirmed that it was her husband who had been Mueller's
primary abuser.[676]

In its digital magazine _Dabiq_ , ISIL explicitly claimed religious
justification for enslaving Yazidi women.[677][678][679] According to _The
Wall Street Journal_ , ISIL appeals to apocalyptic beliefs and claims
"justification by a Hadith that they interpret as portraying the revival of
slavery as a precursor to the end of the world".[680] ISIL appeals to the
hadith and Quran when claiming the right to enslave and rape captive non-
Muslim women.[677][681][682] According to _Dabiq,_ "enslaving the families of
the kuffar and taking their women as concubines is a firmly established aspect
of the Sharia's that if one were to deny or mock, he would be denying or
mocking the verses of the Quran and the narration of the Prophet ... and
thereby apostatizing from Islam." Captured Yazidi women and children are
divided among the fighters who captured them, with one fifth taken as a
tax.[682][683] ISIL has received widespread criticism from Muslim scholars and
others in the Muslim world for using part of the Quran to derive a ruling in
isolation, rather than considering the entire Quran and hadith.[677][681][682]
According to Mona Siddiqui, ISIL's "narrative may well be wrapped up in the
familiar language of jihad and 'fighting in the cause of Allah', but it
amounts to little more than destruction of anything and anyone who doesn't
agree with them"; she describes ISIL as reflecting a "lethal mix of violence
and sexual power" and a "deeply flawed view of manhood".[668] _Dabiq_
describes "this large-scale enslavement" of non-Muslims as "probably the first
since the abandonment of Shariah law".[682][683]

YJÊ are women fighters trained by the Kurdish Workers Party guerillas to
defend themselves against Islamist extremists.

In late 2014, ISIL released a pamphlet that focused on the treatment of female
slaves.[684][685] It claims that the Quran allows fighters to have sex with
captives, including adolescent girls, and to beat slaves as discipline. The
pamphlet's guidelines also allow fighters to trade slaves, including for sex,
as long as they have not been impregnated by their owners.[684][685][686]
Charlie Winter, a researcher at the counter-extremist think tank Quilliam,
described the pamphlet as "abhorrent".[686][687] In response to this document
Abbas Barzegar, a religion professor at Georgia State University, said Muslims
around the world find ISIL's "alien interpretation of Islam grotesque and
abhorrent".[688] Muslim leaders and scholars from around the world have
rejected the validity of ISIL's claims, claiming that the reintroduction of
slavery is un-Islamic, that they are required to protect "People of the
Scripture" including Christians, Jews, Muslims and Yazidis, and that ISIL's
fatwas are invalid due to their lack of religious authority and the fatwas'
inconsistency with Islam.[406][404]

_The Independent_ reported in 2015 that the usage of Yazidi sex slaves had
created ongoing friction among fighters within ISIL. Sajad Jiyad, a Research
Fellow and Associate Member at the Iraqi Institute for Economic Reform, told
the newspaper that many ISIL supporters and fighters had been in denial about
the trafficking of kidnapped Yazidi women until a _Dabiq_ article justifying
the practice was published.[689][690] _The New York Times_ said in August 2015
that "[t]he systematic rape of women and girls from the Yazidi religious
minority has become deeply enmeshed in the organization and the radical
theology of the Islamic State in the year since the group announced it was
reviving slavery as an institution."[653] The article claims that ISIL is not
merely exonerating but sacralising rape, and illustrated this with the
testimony of escapees. One 15-year-old victim said that, while she was being
assaulted, her rapist "kept telling me this is ibadah"; a 12-year-old victim
related how her assailant claimed that, "by raping me, he is drawing closer to
God";[653] and one adult prisoner told how, when she challenged her captor
about repeatedly raping a 12 year old, she was met with the retort, "No, she's
not a little girl, she's a slave and she knows exactly how to have sex and
having sex with her pleases God."[653]

In July 2016 it was reported by an AP investigation that ISIL was using mobile
apps like Telegram to sell their sex slaves and identify the slaves of other
ISIL members at checkpoints.[691] In 2016, the Commission for International
Justice and Accountability said they had identified 34 senior ISIL members who
were instrumental in the systematic sex slave trade and planned to prosecute
them after the end of hostilities.[692]

### Attacks on members of the press

The Committee to Protect Journalists states: "Without a free press, few other
human rights are attainable."[693] ISIL has tortured and murdered local
journalists,[694][695] creating what Reporters Without Borders calls "news
blackholes" in areas controlled by ISIL. ISIL fighters have reportedly been
given written directions to kill or capture journalists.[696]

In December 2013, two suicide bombers stormed the headquarters of TV station
Salaheddin and killed five journalists, after accusing the station of
"distorting the image of Iraq's Sunni community". Reporters Without Borders
reported that on 7 September 2014, ISIL seized and on 11 October publicly
beheaded Raad al-Azzawi, a TV Salaheddin cameraman from the village of Samra,
east of Tikrit.[697] As of October 2014, according to the Journalistic
Freedoms Observatory, ISIL is holding nine journalists and has nine others
under close observation in Mosul and Salahuddin province.[696]

During 2013 and part of 2014, an ISIL unit nicknamed the Beatles acquired and
held 12 Western journalists hostage, along with aid workers and other foreign
hostages, totalling 23 or 24 known hostages. A Polish journalist Marcin Suder
was captured in July 2013 but escaped four months later.[698] The unit
executed American journalists James Foley and Steven Sotloff and released
beheading videos. Eight of the other journalists were released for ransom:
Danish journalist Daniel Rye Ottosen, French journalists Didier François,
Edouard Elias, Nicolas Hénin, and Pierre Torres, and Spanish journalists Marc
Marginedas, Javier Espinosa, and Ricardo García Vilanova. The unit continues
to hold hostage British journalist John Cantlie and a female aid worker.[699]

Cyber-security group the Citizen Lab released a report finding a possible link
between ISIL and a digital attack on the Syrian citizen media group Raqqa Is
Being Slaughtered Silently (RSS). Supporters of the media group received an
emailed link to an image of supposed airstrikes, but clicking on the link
introduced malware to the user's computer that sends details of the user's IP
address and system each time it restarts. That information has been enough to
allow ISIL to locate RSS supporters. "The group has been targeted for
kidnappings, house raids, and at least one alleged targeted killing. At the
time of that writing, ISIL was allegedly holding several citizen journalists
in Raqqa", according to the Citizen Lab report.[700]

On 8 January 2015, ISIL members in Libya claimed to have executed Tunisian
journalists Sofiene Chourabi and Nadhir Ktari who disappeared in September
2014.[701] Also in January 2015, Japanese journalist Kenji Goto was kidnapped
and beheaded, after a demand for a $200 million ransom payment was not
met.[702]

### Beheadings and mass executions

Main article: ISIL beheading incidents

See also: Beheading video and Beheading in Islamism

An unknown number of Syrians and Iraqis, several Lebanese soldiers, male and
female Kurdish fighters near Kobanî, two American journalists, one American
and two British aid workers, 30 Ethiopian Christians[703] and 21 Egyptian
Coptic Christians in Libya[704] have been beheaded by the Islamic State of
Iraq and the Levant. ISIL uses beheadings to intimidate local populations and
has released a series of propaganda videos aimed at Western countries.[64]
ISIL was reported to have beheaded about 100 foreign fighters as deserters who
tried to leave Raqqa.[705]

They also engage in public and mass executions of Syrian and Iraqi soldiers
and civilians,[496] sometimes forcing prisoners to dig their own graves before
shooting lines of prisoners and pushing them in.[706][707] Among the known
mass executions of captured soldiers carried out by ISIL are those in Tikrit
(ISIS executed up to 1,700 Shia Iraqi Air Force cadets from Camp Speicher near
Tikrit on 12 June 2014),[708][709] Al-Thawrah (ISIS executed 250 Syrian
soldiers captured at the Al-Tabqa air base between 27 and 28 August
2014),[710] Palmyra (up to 280 Syrian soldiers and government loyalists were
shot in the head or beheaded in a public square on 22 May 2015),[711] and Deir
ez-Zor (ISIS killed at least 300 Syrian soldiers, pro-government militiamen
and their families on 16 January 2016).[712]

ISIS executed 600 Shia prisoners in Mosul in June 2014.[713] In November 2014,
there were reports that ISIS fighters massacred more than 630 members of the
Albu Nimr tribe in Iraq. Albu Nimr was one of the Sunni Arab tribes that
fiercely opposed the Islamic State.[714] On 17 December 2014, it was reported
by Turkish media, that the ISIS had executed at least 150 women from the Albu
Nimr tribe in Falluja for refusing to marry ISIS militants.[715]

### Use of chemical weapons

Further information: Use of chemical weapons in the Iraqi civil war and Use of
chemical weapons in the Syrian civil war

Kurds in northern Iraq reported being attacked by ISIS with chemical weapons
in August 2015,[716] which was later confirmed to be mustard gas.[717] At
Kobanî, it is highly likely that ISIS used chlorine gas. These chemical
weapons may be from a chemical weapons storage site at Al-Muthanna, which
contained 2,500 chemical rockets. Although the rockets' chemical contents were
deteriorated, ISIS may have used them in a concentrated manner.[718]

### Destruction of cultural and religious heritage

Main article: Destruction of cultural heritage by ISIL

Temple of Bel in Palmyra, which was destroyed by ISIL in August 2015

UNESCO's Director-General Irina Bokova has warned that ISIL is destroying
Iraq's cultural heritage, in what she has called "cultural cleansing". "We
don't have time to lose because extremists are trying to erase the identity,
because they know that if there is no identity, there is no memory, there is
no history", she said. Referring to the ancient cultures of Christians,
Yazidis and other minorities, she said, "This is a way to destroy identity.
You deprive them of their culture, you deprive them of their history, their
heritage, and that is why it goes hand in hand with genocide. Along with the
physical persecution they want to eliminate – to delete – the memory of these
different cultures ... we think this is appalling, and this is not
acceptable."[719] Saad Eskander, head of Iraq's National Archives said, "For
the first time you have cultural cleansing... For the Yazidis, religion is
oral, nothing is written. By destroying their places of worship... you are
killing cultural memory. It is the same with the Christians – it really is a
threat beyond belief."[720]

To finance its activities, ISIL is stealing artefacts from Syria[721] and Iraq
and sending them to Europe to be sold. UNESCO has asked for United Nations
Security Council controls on the sale of antiquities, similar to those imposed
after the 2003 Iraq War. UNESCO is working with Interpol, national customs
authorities, museums, and major auction houses in attempts to prevent looted
items from being sold.[720] ISIL occupied Mosul Museum, the second most
important museum in Iraq, as it was about to reopen after years of rebuilding
following the Iraq War, saying that the statues were against Islam and
threatening to destroy the museum's contents.[722][723]

ISIL considers worshipping at graves tantamount to idolatry, and seeks to
purify the community of unbelievers. It has used bulldozers to crush buildings
and archaeological sites.[723] Bernard Haykel has described al-Baghdadi's
creed as "a kind of untamed Wahhabism", saying, "For Al Qaeda, violence is a
means to an ends; for ISIS, it is an end in itself".[13] The destruction by
ISIL in July 2014 of the tomb and shrine of the prophet Yunus – Jonah in
Christianity – the 13th-century mosque of Imam Yahya Abu al-Qassimin, the
14th-century shrine of prophet Jerjis – St George to Christians – and the
attempted destruction of the Hadba minaret at the 12th-century Great Mosque of
Al-Nuri have been described as "an unchecked outburst of extreme
Wahhabism".[724] "There were explosions that destroyed buildings dating back
to the Assyrian era", said National Museum of Iraq director Qais Rashid,
referring to the destruction of the shrine of Yunus. He cited another case
where "Daesh (ISIL) gathered over 1,500 manuscripts from convents and other
holy places and burnt all of them in the middle of the city square".[725] In
March 2015, ISIL reportedly bulldozed the 13th-century BC Assyrian city of
Nimrud, believing its sculptures to be idolatrous. UNESCO head, Irina Bokova,
deemed this to be a war crime.[726]

ISIL has burned or stolen collections of books and papers from the various
locations including the Central Library of Mosul (which they rigged with
explosives and burned down),[727] the library at the University of Mosul, a
Sunni Muslim library, a 265-year-old Latin Church and Monastery of the
Dominican Fathers, and the Mosul Museum Library. Some destroyed or stolen
works date back to 5000 BCE and include "Iraq newspapers dating to the early
20th century, maps and books from the Ottoman Empire, and book collections
contributed by about 100 of Mosul's establishment families." The stated goal
is to destroy all non-Islamic books.

## See also

|

  * Book: Islamic terrorism
  * Book: Islamic terrorist groups

  
---|---  
  
  * Arab World portal
  * Iraq portal
  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant portal
  * Syria portal
  * Syrian Civil War portal
  * Terrorism portal

  * Violent extremism
  * List of armed groups in the Iraqi Civil War
  * List of armed groups in the Syrian Civil War
  * List of wars and battles involving ISIL
  * _Management of Savagery_
  * Operation Inherent Resolve
  * Islamic Military Alliance
  * Rape during the Syrian Civil War

##  Notes

  1. **^** or **Islamic State of Iraq and al-Sham**

##  References

  1. **^** "Isis flag: What do the words mean and what are its origins?". _The Independent_. 7 July 2015.  
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Pool, Jeffrey (16 December 2004). "Zarqawi's Pledge of Allegiance to Al-Qaeda: From Mu'Asker Al-Battar, Issue 21". _Terrorism Monitor_. Vol.  2 no. 24\. p. The Jamestown Foundation. Archived from the original on 30 September 2007. Retrieved 30 July 2014. 
  3. **^** "Al-Qaeda disavows ISIS militants in Syria". BBC News. 3 February 2014. Retrieved  3 February 2014. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Holmes, Oliver (3 February 2014). "Al Qaeda breaks link with Syrian militant group ISIL". Reuters. Retrieved 6 July 2014. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Laskar, Rezaul H. (29 January 2015). "IS announces expansion into AfPak, parts of India". _Hindustan Times_. Retrieved  22 February 2015. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "IS welcomes Boko Haram allegiance: tape". Agence France-Presse. 12 March 2015. Retrieved  12 March 2015 – via Yahoo! News. 
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Elbagir, Nima; Cruickshank, Paul; Tawfeeq, Mohammed (7 March 2015). "Boko Haram purportedly pledges allegiance to ISIS". CNN. 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gambhir, Harleen (23 June 2015). "ISIS Declares Governorate in Russia's North Caucasus Region". Institute for the Study of War. 
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Islamic State". _Australian National Security_. Australian Government. Retrieved  22 July 2014. 
  10. **^** "The Islamic State". _Mapping Militant Organizations_. Stanford University. 23 January 2015. Retrieved  23 April 2015. 
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Saltman, Erin Marie; Winter, Charlie (November 2014). Islamic State: The Changing Face of Modern Jihadism (PDF) (Report). Quilliam Foundation. ISBN 978-1-906603-98-4. Archived from the original (PDF) on 26 February 2015. Retrieved 23 April 2015. 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Crooke, Alastair (5 September 2014). "You Can't Understand ISIS If You Don't Know the History of Wahhabism in Saudi Arabia". _The Huffington Post_.  
  13. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ Kirkpatrick, David (24 September 2014). "ISIS Harsh Brand of Islam Is Rooted in Austere Saudi Creed". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  6 May 2015. 
  14. **^** "ISIS Threatens to Commit Another Holocaust Against Jews". _Algemeiner.com_.  
  15. **^** Allison, Graham. "Why ISIS Fears Israel". 
  16. **^** Batrawi, Samar; Batrawi, Samar (28 October 2015). "What ISIS Talks About When It Talks About Palestine" – via www.foreignaffairs.com. 
  17. **^** "ISIS fanatics call on supporters to 'terrorize' Jewish people in the West".  
  18. **^** "New ISIS and Al-Qaeda propaganda prioritize the US and Jews as targets". _Anti-Defamation League_.  
  19. **^** "ISIS Augments Its Threats Against Israel". _Anti-Defamation League_.  
  20. **^** Rubin, Alissa J. (5 July 2014). "Militant Leader in Rare Appearance in Iraq". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  6 July 2014. 
  21. **^** Al-Tamimi, Aymenn Jawad (24 January 2016). "An Account of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi & Islamic State Succession Lines". _Aymenn Jawad Al-Tamimi's Blog_.  
  22. **^** "Abd al-Rahman Mustafa al-Qaduli". _Rewards for Justice_. U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Diplomatic Security. 5 May 2015. Archived from the original on 18 May 2015. Retrieved  7 May 2015. 
  23. **^** Schmidt, Michael (25 March 2016). "A Top ISIS Leader Is Killed in an Airstrike, the Pentagon Says". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  26 March 2016. 
  24. **^** "Islamic State Spreads in North Africa in Attacks Ignored by West".  
  25. **^** Jawad Al-Tamimi, Aymenn (January 2016). An Account of Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi & Islamic State Succession Lines. _Aymenn Jawad Al-Tamimi's Blog_ (Report). Retrieved  8 May 2016. 
  26. **^** "ISIS Leadership". _Frontline_. PBS. 2015. Retrieved  14 August 2015. 
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Chulov, Martin (31 August 2016). "Abu Muhammad al-Adnani's death does not signal the demise of Isis". _Reuters_. Retrieved  31 August 2016. 
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lister, Charles (2014). Islamic State Senior Leadership: Who's Who (PDF) (Report). Brookings Institution. Retrieved 11 May 2015. 
  29. **^** "Here's What We Know About the 'Caliph' of the New Islamic State". _Business Insider_. Agence France-Presse. 29 June 2014. Retrieved  18 July 2014. 
  30. **^** "ISIS Spokesman Declares Caliphate, Rebrands Group as Islamic State". _Jihadist Threat_. SITE Intelligence Group. 29 June 2014. Retrieved  29 June 2014. 
  31. **^** Pentagon Confirms U.S. Strike in Syria Killed ISIL Leader 12 September 2016
  32. **^** Islamic State says top commander is dead; Pentagon unsure Stars and Stripes (14 July 2016)
  33. **^** "Isis has confirmed the death of hugely popular 'minister of war' Omar al-Shishani". _The Independent_. 13 July 2016.  
  34. **^** "U.S. confirms death of ISIS operative Omar al-Shishani". CNN. 14 March 2016. Retrieved  14 March 2016. 
  35. **^** "Tarkhan Tayumurazovich Batirashvili". _Rewards for Justice_. U.S. Department of State, Bureau of Diplomatic Security. 5 May 2015. Archived from the original on 18 May 2015. Retrieved  7 May 2015. 
  36. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Isis: US-trained Tajik special forces chief Gulmurod Khalimov becomes Isis 'war minister '". Yahoo News. 6 September 2016. 
  37. **^** "Isis's propaganda chief, Dr Wa'il, killed in airstrike, Pentagon confirms". _The Guardian_. 16 September 2016. Retrieved  18 September 2016. 
  38. **^** "ISIS 'essentially moved' its Syria HQ from Raqqa to Deir ez-Zor province – report".  
  39. **^** "Syrian army captures Mayadin from ISIS near Deir ez-Zor". Rudaw. 14 October 2017. Retrieved  5 November 2017. 
  40. **^** Sarah Benhaida with Ahmad al-Rubaye (26 October 2017). "Iraq forces launch 'last big fight' against IS". Rudaw. Retrieved 27 October 2017. 
  41. **^** "Anti-IS forces converge on Syria border town". Yahoo Singapore News. 4 November 2017. Retrieved  5 November 2017. 
  42. **^** "Syrian army & allies capture last major ISIS held town in Syria". _RT_. TV-Novosti. Retrieved  8 November 2017. 
  43. **^** ISIS just lost its last town in Iraq
  44. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Cockburn, Patrick (16 November 2014). "War with Isis: Islamic militants have army of 200,000, claims senior Kurdish leader". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  8 December 2014. 
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Saddam's former army is secret of Baghdadi's success". Reuters. 16 June 2015. Retrieved  1 July 2015. 
  46. **^** Sciutto, Jim; Crawford, Jamie; Carter, Chelsea J. (12 September 2014). "ISIS can 'muster' between 20,000 and 31,500 fighters, CIA says". CNN. Retrieved 6 July 2015. 
  47. **^** Michaels, Jim (4 February 2016). "New U.S. intelligence estimate sees 20-25K ISIL fighters". _USA Today_. Washington, DC.  
  48. **^** Sciutto, Jim; Starr, Barbara; Liptak, Kevin (4 February 2016). "ISIS fighters in Libya surge as group suffers setbacks in Syria, Iraq". Washington, DC: CNN. 
  49. **^** "ISIS down to 6,500 fighters, holds only 3 percent of Iraq". _Washington Examiner_. 17 October 2017. Retrieved  12 November 2017. 
  50. **^** Gartenstein-Ross-ROSS, Daveed (9 February 2015). "How many Fighters Does the Islamic State Really Have?". War on the Rocks. 
  51. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Zelin, Aaron Y. (June 2014). The War between ISIS and al-Qaeda for Supremacy of the Global Jihadist Movement (PDF). _Research Notes_ (Report). **20**. Washington Institute for Near East Policy. Retrieved  15 October 2014. 
  52. **^** "OKRA Home". _Global Operations_. Department of Defense - Government of Australia. Retrieved  25 October 2017. 
  53. **^** https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/middle-east/isis-china-threaten-terror-attack-muslim-islamist-group-islamic-state-a7606211.html
  54. **^** https://www.independent.co.uk/news/world/asia/pakistan-isis-shrine-bombing-attack-terrorist-killings-latest-sehwan-sufi-shrine-death-toll-taliban-a7585901.html
  55. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Tharoor, Ishaan (18 June 2014). "ISIS or ISIL? The debate over what to call Iraq's terror group". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  21 June 2014. 
  56. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Schwartz, Felica (23 December 2014). "One More Name for Islamic State: Daesh". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  25 December 2014. 
  57. **^** Guthrie, Alice (19 February 2015). "Decoding Daesh: Why is the new name for ISIS so hard to understand?". Free Word Centre. Retrieved 15 November 2015. 
  58. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "INGYouth: Frequently Asked Questions". _ING_. Retrieved  30 November 2017. 
  59. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Fouad al-Ibrahim (22 August 2014). "Why ISIS is a threat to Saudi Arabia: Wahhabism's deferred promise". _Al Akhbar English_. Archived from the original on 24 August 2014.  
  60. **^** Dolgov, Boris (23 September 2014). "Islamic State and the policy of the West". _Oriental Review_.  

Wilson, Rodney (15 May 2015). "Islam and Economic Policy". Edinburgh
University Press – via Google Books.

Cockburn, Patrick (3 March 2016). "End Times for the Caliphate?". pp. 29–30 –
via London Review of Books.

Pastukhov, Dmitry; Greenwold, Nathaniel. "Does Islamic State have the economic
and political institutions for future development?" (PDF).

Pedler, John (28 April 2015). "A Word Before Leaving: A Former Diplomat's
Weltanschauung". Troubador Publishing Ltd – via Google Books.

Kerr, Michael; Larkin, Craig (1 January 2015). "The Alawis of Syria: War,
Faith and Politics in the Levant". Oxford University Press – via Google Books.

  61. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "John Kerry holds talks in Iraq as more cities fall to ISIS militants". CNN. 23 June 2014. Retrieved  10 December 2015. 
  62. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Suadad Al-Salhy; Tim Arango (10 June 2014). "Sunni Militants Drive Iraqi Army Out of Mosul". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  10 December 2015. 
  63. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Arango, Tim (3 August 2014). "Sunni Extremists in Iraq Seize 3 Towns From Kurds and Threaten Major Dam". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  20 August 2014. 
  64. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "A Short History Of ISIS Propaganda Videos". _The World Post_. 11 March 2015.  
  65. **^** al-Taie, Khalid (13 February 2015). "Iraq churches, mosques under ISIL attack". Al-Shorfa. Archived from the original on 19 February 2015. Retrieved 27 February 2015. 
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Ethnic cleansing on a historic scale: The Islamic State's systematic targeting of minorities in northern Iraq" (PDF). Amnesty International. 2 September 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 March 2015. Retrieved 19 October 2014. 
  67. **^** Roggio, Bill (29 June 2014). "ISIS announces formation of Caliphate, rebrands as 'Islamic State '". _Long War Journal_.  
  68. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Withnall, Adam (29 June 2014). "Iraq crisis: Isis changes name and declares its territories a new Islamic state with 'restoration of caliphate' in Middle East". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  29 June 2014. 
  69. **^** "What is Islamic State?". BBC News. 26 September 2014. Retrieved  9 March 2015. 
  70. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "What does ISIS' declaration of a caliphate mean?". _Al Akhbar English_. 30 June 2014. Retrieved  25 November 2014. . See also: Kadi, Wadad; Shahin, Aram A. "Caliph, caliphate". In Bowering (2013).
  71. **^** Akyol, Mustafa (21 December 2015). "A Medieval Antidote to ISIS". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  4 January 2016. [ _not in citation given_ ]
  72. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Why ISIL Will Fail on Its Own". _Politico_. 29 November 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  73. **^** Birke, Sarah. "How ISIS Rules". _The New York Review of Books_. Retrieved  2017-04-13. 
  74. **^** "Islamic State and the crisis in Iraq and Syria in maps". BBC News. 18 October 2016. Retrieved  27 October 2016. 
  75. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Exclusive: In turf war with Afghan Taliban, Islamic State loyalists gain ground". Reuters. 29 June 2015. Retrieved  6 October 2015. 
  76. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Pakistan Taliban splinter group vows allegiance to Islamic State". Reuters. 18 November 2014. Retrieved  19 November 2014. 
  77. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Zavadski, Katie (23 November 2014). "ISIS Now Has a Network of Military Affiliates in 11 Countries Around the World". _New York_. Retrieved  25 November 2014. 
  78. **^** Gerges, Fawaz A. (2016). _A History of ISIS_. Princeton, New Jersey, USA: Princeton University Press. pp.  21–22. ISBN 9780691170008. 
  79. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "PressTV-'US created, allowed regional funding of Daesh '". Archived from the original on 11 July 2017. Retrieved 11 July 2017. 
  80. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Russia's Syria Mirage Institute for Study of War website. By Matti Suomenaro, et all. Aug. 13, 2017. Downloaded Aug. 23, 2017.
  81. **^** Irshaid, Faisal (2 December 2015). "Isis, Isil, IS or Daesh? One group, many names". BBC. Retrieved 2 December 2015. 
  82. **^** "AlQaeda in Iraq confirms Syria's Nusra Front is part of its network". Al Arabiya English. 9 April 2013. Retrieved  15 June 2014. 
  83. **^** Saxena, Vivek (18 June 2014). "ISIS vs ISIL – Which One Is It?". _The Inquisitr_. Retrieved  20 June 2014. 
  84. **^** "Terrorist Designations of Groups Operating in Syria". United States Department of State. 14 May 2014. Retrieved  18 June 2014. 
  85. **^** "Isis, Isil or Da'ish? What to call militants in Iraq". BBC News. 24 June 2014. Retrieved  16 August 2014. 
  86. **^** Randal, Collin. "Why Does a Simple Word like Daesh Disturb Extremists so Much". _The National_. Abu Dhabi. Retrieved  22 November 2014. 
  87. **^** Abouzeid, Rania (16 January 2014). "Syria's uprising within an uprising". European Council on Foreign Relations. Archived from the original on 25 January 2014. Retrieved 15 August 2014. 
  88. **^** Vultaggio, Maria (16 November 2015). "ISIL, ISIS, Islamic State, Daesh: What's The Difference?". _International Business Times_.  
  89. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Moore, Jack (2 July 2014). "Iraq Crisis: Senior Jordan Jihadist Slams Isis Caliphate". _International Business Times UK_. Retrieved  2 July 2014. 
  90. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Mandhai, Shafik (7 July 2014). "Muslim leaders reject Baghdadi's caliphate". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 12 July 2014. 
  91. **^** "Iraq's Baghdadi calls for 'holy war '". Al Jazeera. 2 July 2014. Retrieved 2 July 2014. 
  92. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Statement by the President on ISIL". White House. Retrieved  13 October 2014. 
  93. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "United Nations Official Document". United Nations. Archived from the original on 28 October 2014. Retrieved  13 October 2014. 
  94. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Pugliese, David. "Details about the Canadian government's motion about going to war against ISIL". _Ottawa Citizen_. Retrieved  13 October 2014. 
  95. **^** "Turkish government files motion to Parliament to fight ISIL". Andalou Agency. Retrieved  14 October 2014. 
  96. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Australia says ready to strike ISIL in Iraq". Al Jazeera. 3 October 2014. Retrieved  13 October 2014. 
  97. **^** "Russia urges Iran's participation in anti-ISIL battle". Press TV. 28 September 2014. Archived from the original on 12 October 2014. Retrieved  21 November 2014. 
  98. **^** "ISIL: UK government response". Government of the United Kingdom. 13 October 2014.  
  99. **^** Taylor, Adam (17 September 2014). "France is ditching the 'Islamic State' name—and replacing it with a label the group hates". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  6 October 2014. 
  100. **^** Yuhasin, Alan (19 December 2014). "US general rebrands Isis 'Daesh' after requests from regional partners Leader of operations against group uses alternative name – a pejorative in Arabic that rejects fighters' claims on Islam". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  22 December 2014. 
  101. **^** Tobey, Mark (2015). _The ISIS Crisis: What You Really Need to Know_. chapter 6 reference 13.  The final expression of Islamic government found in the Middle East would seem to be the purest, yet actually represents the most dangerous form: **theocratic** Islam.  
  102. **^** Belanger-McMurdo, Adele. "A Fight for Statehood? ISIS and Its Quest for Political Domination". Nevertheless, ISIS is neither a terrorist organization nor a political party; instead, it is a **theocratic proto-state**.  
  103. **^** Caldwell, Dan (2016). _Seeking Security in an Insecure World_. Rowman & Littlefield. p. 195\.  It is a **theocratic state** that considers itself unbound by the Westphalian principle of sovereignty with its corollaries of nonaggression and nonintervention  
  104. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hassan, Hassan (24 January 2015). "The secret world of Isis training camps – ruled by sacred texts and the sword". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  2 February 2015. 
  105. **^** Bradley, Matt (1 February 2015). "Islamic State Affiliate Takes Root Amid Libya's Chaos". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  2 February 2015. 
  106. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Prusher, Ilene (9 September 2014). "What the ISIS Flag Says About the Militant Group". _Time_. Archived from the original on 9 September 2014. Retrieved  29 September 2014. 
  107. **^** Speckhard, Anne (29 August 2014). "Endtimes Brewing". _Huffington Post (UK)_. Archived from the original on 17 September 2014.  
  108. **^** Hussain, Ghaffar (30 June 2014). "Iraq crisis: What does the Isis caliphate mean for global jihadism?". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  6 July 2014. 
  109. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Crime and punishment in Saudi Arabia: The other beheaders". _The Economist_. 20 September 2014. Retrieved  7 November 2014. 
  110. **^** Staff writer (19 August 2014). "'ISIS is enemy No. 1 of Islam,' says Saudi grand mufti". _Al Arabiyah News English_. Retrieved  5 October 2017. 
  111. **^** Staff writer. "Some Saudi clerics condemn Isil but preach intolerance". _Gulf News_ (10 September 2014). Reuters. Retrieved  5 October 2017. 
  112. **^** Mamouri, Ali (29 July 2014). "Why Islamic State has no sympathy for Hamas". _Al-Monitor_. Retrieved  1 August 2014. 
  113. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Wood, Graeme (15 February 2015). "What ISIS Really Wants". _The Atlantic_. Retrieved  19 February 2015. 
  114. **^** McCants, William (2015). _The ISIS Apocalypse: The History, Strategy, and Doomsday Vision of the Islamic State_. New York: St. Martin's Press. p. 147\. ISBN 978-1-250-08090-5.  
  115. **^** Beauchamp, Zack (2 September 2014). "17 things about ISIS and Iraq you need to know". _Vox_. Retrieved  5 September 2014. 
  116. **^** Abu Mohammad. "Letter dated 9 July 2005" (PDF). Office of the Director of National Intelligence. See page 2 onwards. Archived from the original (PDF) on 22 May 2011. Retrieved 22 July 2014. 
  117. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Johnson, M. Alex (3 September 2014). "'Deviant and Pathological': What Do ISIS Extremists Really Want?". NBC News. Retrieved 5 September 2014. 
  118. **^** Kubba, Laith (7 July 2014). "Who is the U.S. targeting in Iraq air strikes?". Al Jazeera. 
  119. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Joscelyn, Thomas (29 September 2015). "US counterterrorism efforts in Syria: A winning strategy?". _Long War Journal_.  
  120. **^** Withnall, Adam (21 December 2014). "Middle East. Inside Isis: The first Western journalist ever to be given access to the 'Islamic State' has just returned – and this is what he discovered". _The Independent_. Retrieved  3 October 2015. 
  121. **^** Greyvenstein, Hester Maria (15 January 2015). "Q&A: German journalist on surviving ISIL". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 4 October 2015. Something that I don't understand at all is the enthusiasm in their plan of religious cleansing, planning to kill the non-believers... They also will kill Muslim democrats because they believe that non-ISIL-Muslims put the laws of human beings above the commandments of God. These were very difficult discussions, especially when they were talking about the number of people who they are willing to kill. They were talking about hundreds of millions. They were enthusiastic about it, and I just cannot understand that. 
  122. **^** Tran, Mark; Weaver, Matthew (30 June 2014). "Isis announces Islamic caliphate in area straddling Iraq and Syria". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  6 July 2014. 
  123. **^** McGrath, Timothy (2 July 2014). "Watch this English-speaking ISIS fighter explain how a 98-year-old colonial map created today's conflict". _Los Angeles Times_. GlobalPost. Retrieved  22 July 2014. 
  124. **^** Caillet, Romain (27 December 2013). "The Islamic State: Leaving al-Qaeda Behind". Carnegie Endowment for International Peace. 
  125. **^** Manne, Robert (June 2016). "The mind of the Islamic State: An ideology of savagery". _The Monthly_.  
  126. **^** Moghadam, Assaf; Fishman, Brian (10 May 2011). _Fault Lines in Global Jihad: Organizational, Strategic, and Ideological Fissures_. Taylor & Francis. p. 55\. ISBN 978-1-136-71058-2.  
  127. **^** Moghadam, Assaf; Fishman, Brian, eds. (16 December 2010). Self-Inflicted Wounds: Debates and Divisions within al-Qa’ida and its Periphery (PDF) (Report). Harmony Project, Combating Terrorism Center at West Point. 
  128. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Reuter, Christoph (18 April 2015). "The Terror Strategist: Secret Files Reveal the Structure of Islamic State". _Der Spiegel_. Retrieved  4 December 2015. 
  129. **^** Reardon, Martin (6 July 2015). "ISIL and the management of savagery". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 20 November 2015. 
  130. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gude, Ken (November 2015). _Anti-Muslim Sentiment Is a Serious Threat to American Security_ (PDF). Center for American Progress. p. 3. Retrieved 4 December 2015. 
  131. **^** Burke, Jason (14 November 2015). "Islamic State 'Goes Global' with Paris Attacks". _The Observer_.  
  132. **^** Gambhir, Harleen (February 2015). ISIS Global Intelligence Summary: January 7 – February 18 (PDF) (Report). Washington, DC: Institute for the Study of War. 
  133. **^** Chotiner, Isaac (12 July 2016). "The ISIS Correspondent [interview with Rukmini Callimachi]". _Slate.com_.  
  134. **^** Naji, Abu Bakr (23 May 2006). _The Management of Savagery: The Most Critical Stage Through Which the Umma Will Pass_ (PDF). John M. Olin Institute for Strategic Studies at Harvard University. Retrieved 20 November 2015. 
  135. **^** McCoy, Terrence (12 August 2014). "The calculated madness of the Islamic State's horrifying brutality". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  1 September 2014. 
  136. **^** Alastair, Crooke (30 June 2014). "The ISIS' 'Management of Savagery' in Iraq". _The Huffington Post_. Retrieved  1 September 2014. 
  137. **^** Hassan, Hassan (8 February 2015). "Isis has reached new depths of depravity. But there is a brutal logic behind it". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  10 February 2015. 
  138. **^** Wright, Lawrence (16 June 2014). "ISIS's Savage Strategy in Iraq". _The New Yorker_. Retrieved  1 September 2014. 
  139. **^** Atran, Scott; Hamid, Nafees (16 November 2015). "Paris: The War ISIS Wants". _The New York Review of Books_. Retrieved  20 November 2015. 
  140. **^** Erdbrink, Thomas (2017-06-07). "Iran Assails Saudi Arabia After Pair of Deadly Terrorist Attacks". _The New York Times_. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved  2017-06-07. 
  141. **^** CNN, Greg Botelho and Barbara Starr,. "U.S. strikes ISIS camp in Libya; 49 killed - CNN". _CNN_. Retrieved  2017-11-02. 
  142. **^** "Modeling ISIL terror attacks and their intensities via marked point process Bayesian models". _adventuresinstatistics_. 2017-10-31. Retrieved  2017-11-02. 
  143. **^** Hubbard, Ben (24 July 2014). "Life in a Jihadist Capital: Order With a Darker Side". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  5 September 2014. 
  144. **^** "Everything We Knew About This ISIS Mastermind Was Wrong". The Daily Beast. 15 April 2016. Retrieved  1 May 2016. 
  145. **^** "The Islamic State" (PDF). _Soufan Group_. November 2014. Retrieved  23 April 2015. 
  146. **^** "ISIS Replace Injured Leader Baghdadi With Former Physics Teacher". _Newsweek_. 22 April 2015. Retrieved  7 May 2015. 
  147. **^** Thompson, Nick; Shubert, Attika (18 September 2014). "The anatomy of ISIS: How the 'Islamic State' is run, from oil to beheadings". CNN. Retrieved 21 September 2014. 
  148. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Ruthven, Malise (9 July 2015). "Inside the Islamic State. Review of Islamic State: The Digital Caliphate by Abdel Bari Atwan". _The New York Review of Books_.  
  149. **^** The hidden hand behind the Islamic State militants? Saddam Hussein’s., _Washington Post_
  150. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Hubbard, Ben; Schmitt, Eric (27 August 2014). "Military Skill and Terrorist Technique Fuel Success of ISIS". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  28 August 2014. 
  151. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sly, Liz (5 April 2015). "How Saddam Hussein's former military officers and spies are controlling Isis". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  21 April 2015. But American officials didn't anticipate that they would become not only adjuncts to al-Qaeda, but core members of the jihadist group. They were instrumental in the group's rebirth from the defeats inflicted on insurgents by the US military, which is now back in Iraq bombing many of the same men it had already fought twice before. 
  152. **^** "Former US military adviser David Kilcullen says there would be no Isis without Iraq invasion". _The Independent_. 4 March 2016. Retrieved  8 March 2016. 
  153. **^** "Foreign Recruits Are Islamic State's Cannon Fodder". Bloomberg News. 11 February 2015.  
  154. **^** "Iraqis, Saudis call shots in Raqa, ISIL's Syrian 'capital '". Channel NewsAsia. 19 June 2014. Archived from the original on 12 February 2015. 
  155. **^** Abi-Habib, Maria (9 March 2015). "Splits in Islamic State Emerge as Its Ranks Expand". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  11 April 2015. 
  156. **^** Trofimov, Yaroslav (4 February 2015). "In Islamic State Stronghold of Raqqa, Foreign Fighters Dominate". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  11 April 2015. 
  157. **^** "IS group unit known as 'Emni' aims to export terror around the world – France 24". 4 August 2016.  
  158. **^** "How a Secretive Branch of ISIS Built a Global Network of Killers". _The New York Times_. 3 August 2016. Retrieved  7 August 2016. 
  159. **^** _The Islamic State: How Its Leadership Is Organized_. _The Wall Street Journal_. 8 September 2014 – via YouTube.  
  160. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Rule of Terror: Living under ISIS in Syria" (PDF). United Nations Commission on Human Rights. Archived from the original (PDF) on 4 February 2015. Retrieved 29 November 2014. 
  161. **^** _Two women release extraordinary footage of what life is really like living under Isis_. _The Independent_. 13 March 2016 – via The Independent.  
  162. **^** "Deserters describe life under ISIL rule". _Al Jazeera_. 13 October 2016. Retrieved  21 October 2016. 
  163. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ McCoy, Terrence (13 June 2013). "ISIL, beheadings and the success of horrifying violence". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  23 June 2014. 
  164. **^** Haytham Mustafa (31 December 2016). "Islamic State replaces Syrian officials by foreign jihadists in Raqqa". ARA News. Retrieved 31 December 2016. 
  165. **^** "Global Terrorism Index 2015". Institute For Economics and Peace. October 2015. Pages 46–47.
  166. **^** "Sa është numri i xhihadistëve të ISIS-it?" [How Many Jihadists ISIS?] (in Albanian). Tirana, Albania: Top Channel. Retrieved  22 February 2015. 
  167. **^** Weaver, Mary Anne (19 April 2015). "Her Majesty's Jihadists". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  14 April 2015. 
  168. **^** "UN Report on 15,000 Foreigners Joining ISIS Fighters in Syria And Iraq Will Shock You". _International Business Times_. Archived from the original on 10 November 2014.  
  169. **^** Windrem, Robert (28 February 2015). "ISIS By the Numbers: Foreign Fighter Total Keeps Growing". NBC News. Retrieved 10 December 2015. 
  170. **^** Sarhan, Arme. "CIA: 30,000 foreign fighters have traveled to Syria and Iraq to join ISIS". Iraq News. 29 September 2015.
  171. **^** "World's Richest Terror Army". BBC. 24 April 2015. p. 25:06 – within a 59 minute programme.  excerpt from, interview with Abu Hajjar, a former "senior leader of IS": "How much money would a foreign fighter receive as a wage?" "A foreigner? They aren't given a salary. They are given food and housing, not money." 
  172. **^** Ismay, John (17 October 2013). "Insight into How Insurgents Fought in Iraq". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  22 August 2014. 
  173. **^** Lister, Charles (7 August 2014). "Not Just Iraq: The Islamic State Is Also on the March in Syria". _The Huffington Post_. Retrieved  11 August 2014. 
  174. **^** "ISIS used US-made anti-tank missiles near Palmyra". _Business Insider._ 9 June 2015.
  175. **^** "U.S. missile brought down Russian helicopter in Syria: report". Japan Times. 10 July 2016.
  176. **^** "Treasury Targets ISIS Leader Involved in Chemical Weapons Development". United States Department of the Treasury. June 12, 2017.  Al-Jaburi is an Iraq-based, ISIS senior leader in charge of factories producing improvised explosive devices (IEDs), vehicle-borne improvised explosive devices (VBIEDs), and explosives, and he is involved in the development of chemical weapons 
  177. **^** Cowell, Alan (10 July 2014). "Low-Grade Nuclear Material Is Seized by Rebels in Iraq, U.N. Says". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  15 July 2014. 
  178. **^** Sherlock, Ruth (10 July 2014). "Iraq jihadists seize 'nuclear material', says ambassador to UN". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  15 July 2014. 
  179. **^** Blake, Paul (11 September 2015). "US official: 'IS making and using chemical weapons in Iraq and Syria'". BBC. Retrieved 16 September 2015. 
  180. **^** Dearden, Lizzie (11 September 2015). "Isis 'manufacturing and using chemical weapons' in Iraq and Syria, US official claims". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  16 September 2015. 
  181. **^** Water and Violence Link: Crisis of Survival in the Middle East (PDF) (Report). Mumbai, India: Strategic Foresight. December 2014. ISBN 978-81-88262-24-3. 
  182. **^** Eshel, Tamir (12 October 2016). "Weaponized Mini-Drones Entering the Fight". _Defense Update_. Retrieved  25 February 2017. 
  183. **^** Eshel, Tamir (17 January 2017). "RAF Strikes Daesh Drone Facility in Mosul". _Defense Update_. Retrieved  25 February 2017. 
  184. **^** Tomlinson, Simon (1 December 2014). "'ISIS made me clean the toilets... and my iPod didn't work': How disenchanted Islamic fanatics are returning home because jihad isn't as glamorous as they hoped". _Daily Mail_. London. Retrieved  22 January 2015. 
  185. **^** Saul, Heather (31 October 2014). "Isis now targeting women with guides on how to be the 'ultimate wives of jihad'". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  22 January 2015. 
  186. **^** Abdul-Alim, Jamaal (8 March 2015). "ISIS 'Manifesto' Spells Out Role for Women". _The Atlantic_. Retrieved  23 November 2015. 
  187. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Winter, Charlie (5 February 2015). "QUILLIAM Translation and Analysis of Islamic State Manifesto on Jihadist Brides". Quilliam Foundation. Archived from the original on 19 January 2016. Retrieved 23 November 2015. 
  188. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Khalaf, Roula; Jones, Sam (17 June 2014). "Selling terror: how Isis details its brutality". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  18 June 2014. 
  189. **^** Stone, Jeff (17 June 2014). "ISIS Attacks Twitter Streams, Hacks Accounts To Make Jihadi Message Go Viral". _International Business Times_. Retrieved  19 June 2014. 
  190. **^** Roggio, Bill (28 October 2007). "US targets al Qaeda's al Furqan media wing in Iraq". _Long War Journal_.  
  191. **^** Bilger 2014, p. 1. [ _full citation needed_ ]
  192. **^** Zelin, Aaron Y. (8 March 2013). "New statement from the Global Islamic Media Front: Announcement on the Publishing of al-I'tiṣām Media Foundation – A Subsidiary of the Islamic State of Iraq – It Will Be Released Via GIMF". _Jihadology_. Retrieved  24 June 2014. 
  193. **^** Zelin, Aaron Y. (20 August 2013). "New statement from the Islamic State of Iraq and al-Shām: "Announcing Ajnād Foundation For Media Production"". _Jihadology_. Retrieved  8 June 2015. 
  194. **^** Gertz, Bill (13 June 2014). "New Al Qaeda Group Produces Recruitment Material for Americans, Westerners". _The Washington Free Beacon_. Retrieved  24 June 2014. 
  195. **^** "ISIS Declares Islamic Caliphate, Appoints Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi As 'Caliph', Declares All Muslims Must Pledge Allegiance To Him". MEMRI. 30 June 2014. Retrieved  7 July 2014. 
  196. **^** Zelin, Aaron Y. (28 January 2015). "The Islamic State's model". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  30 March 2015. 
  197. **^** Sullivan, Kevin (8 December 2014). "Three American teens, recruited online, are caught trying to join the Islamic State". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  9 December 2014. 
  198. **^** "Dabiq: What Islamic State's New Magazine Tells Us about Their Strategic Direction, Recruitment Patterns and Guerrilla Doctrine". The Jamestown Foundation. 1 August 2014. Retrieved  18 August 2014. 
  199. **^** Akkoc, Raziye (12 October 2015). "Ankara bombings: Islamic State is main suspect, says Turkish PM Ahmet Davutoglu". _The Daily Telegraph_. Retrieved  2 December 2015. 
  200. **^** Hunter, Isabel (22 July 2015). "Suruc bombings: Turkish President accused of not doing enough to help Kurds fight Isis threat across its border in Syria". _The Independent_. Retrieved  2 December 2015. 
  201. **^** "Jihadists Release First Issue of Pro-IS French Magazine "Dar al-Islam "". SITE Intelligence Group. 22 December 2014. Retrieved 31 March 2016. 
  202. **^** "The Virtual Caliphate: ISIS'S Information Warfare" (PDF). _Institute for the Study of War_. Retrieved  2017-02-07. As of late 2016, Rumiyah has apparently supplanted other internationally oriented publications, as al-Hayat has ceased publishing them 
  203. **^** "Islamic State launches English-language radio bulletins". _The Daily Telegraph_. London. 7 April 2015. Retrieved  18 May 2015. 
  204. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Berger, J. M. (16 June 2014). "How ISIS Games Twitter". _The Atlantic_. Retrieved  19 June 2014. 
  205. **^** "ISIS Propaganda Campaign Threatens U.S". Anti-Defamation League. 27 June 2014. Retrieved  27 June 2014. 
  206. **^** "Isis Telegram channel doubles followers to 9,000 in less than 1 week". 12 October 2015 – via Yahoo News.  
  207. **^** Lee, Ian; Hanna, Jason (12 August 2015). "Croatian ISIS captive reportedly beheaded". CNN. Retrieved 12 August 2015. 
  208. **^** Walsh, Michael (23 September 2014). "ISIS releases second 'lecture video' of British hostage John Cantlie". _Daily News_. New York. Retrieved  6 October 2014. 
  209. **^** Hegghammer, Thomas; Nesser, Petter (9 July 2015). "Assessing the Islamic State's Commitment to Attacking the West". _Perspectives on Terrorism_. Terrorism Research Initiative. **9** (4). ISSN 2334-3745.  
  210. **^** "Inside the Islamic State kidnap machine". _BBC News_. 22 September 2015. Retrieved  9 October 2016. 
  211. **^** "Financing of the Terrorist Organisation Islamic State in Iraq and the Levant" (PDF). Financial Action Task Force. February 2015. Retrieved 19 April 2015. 
  212. **^** Matthews, Dylan (24 July 2014). "The surreal infographics ISIS is producing, translated". Vox. Retrieved 25 July 2014. 
  213. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Allam, Hannah (23 June 2014). "Records show how Iraqi extremists withstood U.S. anti-terror efforts". McClatchy News. Retrieved 25 June 2014. 
  214. **^** The Editorial Board (2017-03-12). "Man Without an ISIS Plan". _The New York Times_. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  215. **^** Chulov, Martin (15 June 2014). "How an arrest in Iraq revealed Isis's $2bn jihadist network". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  17 June 2014. 
  216. **^** Moore, Jack (11 June 2014). "Mosul Seized: Jihadis Loot $429m from City's Central Bank to Make Isis World's Richest Terror Force". _International Business Times_. Retrieved  19 June 2014. 
  217. **^** McCoy, Terrence (12 June 2014). "ISIS just stole $425 million, Iraqi governor says, and became the 'world's richest terrorist group'". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  18 June 2014. 
  218. **^** Carey, Glen; Haboush, Mahmoud; Viscusi, Gregory (26 June 2014). "Financing Jihad: Why ISIS Is a Lot Richer Than Al-Qaeda". Bloomberg News. Retrieved 19 July 2014. 
  219. **^** Windrem, Robert (24 June 2014). "U.S. Official Doubts ISIS Mosul Bank Heist Windfall". NBC News. Retrieved 22 July 2014. 
  220. **^** Daragahi, Borzou (17 July 2014). "Biggest bank robbery that 'never happened' – $400m Isis heist". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  21 July 2014. (Subscription required (help)). 
  221. **^** "Isis to mint own Islamic dinar coins in gold, silver and copper". _The Guardian_. 21 November 2014.  
  222. **^** "Islamic State reportedly buying silver, gold as it prepares to issue currency". _McClatchy_. 20 November 2014. Archived from the original on 16 July 2015. Retrieved  21 November 2014. 
  223. **^** Ensor, Josie (14 November 2014). "Islamic State announces its own currency". _The Telegraph_. London. Archived from the original on 17 November 2014. Retrieved  21 November 2014. 
  224. **^** Jabbar, Marwan (3 September 2015). "Gold at End of Extremist Rainbow: Islamic State Release Their Own 'Fake' Currency". _Niqash_. Baghdad.  
  225. **^** Pagliery, Jose (2015-12-04). "ISIS is obsessed with gold currency". _CNNMoney_. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  226. **^** "Zarqawi pledges allegiance to Osama". _Dawn_. Agence France-Presse. 18 October 2004. Archived from the original on 29 December 2007. Retrieved  13 July 2007. 
  227. **^** "Al-Zarqawi group vows allegiance to bin Laden". NBC News. Associated Press. 18 October 2004. Retrieved  13 July 2007. 
  228. **^** _Uppsala Data Conflict Programme: Conflict Encyclopaedia (Iraq)_. Archived from the original on 2013-09-27.   (See One-sided violence – ISIS-civilians – Actor information-ISIS.) Retrieved 23 September 2016.
  229. **^** Whitlock, Craig (10 June 2006). "Death Could Shake Al-Qaeda in Iraq and Around the World". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  22 July 2014. 
  230. **^** Knights, Michael (29 May 2014). "The ISIL's Stand in the Ramadi-Falluja Corridor". Combating Terrorism Center. Retrieved 12 July 2014. 
  231. **^** Whitaker, Brian (13 October 2005). "Revealed: Al-Qaida plan to seize control of Iraq". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  19 September 2014. 
  232. **^** Fishman 2008, pp. 48–9.
  233. **^** "Al-Qaeda in Iraq names new head". BBC News. 12 June 2006.  
  234. **^** Tran, Mark (1 May 2007). "Al-Qaida in Iraq leader believed dead". _The Guardian_.  
  235. **^** Fishman 2008, pp. 49–50
  236. **^** Roggio, Bill (12 October 2006). "al Qaeda's Grand Coalition in Anbar". _Long War Journal_. Retrieved  11 February 2015. 
  237. **^** "Jihad Groups in Iraq Take an Oath of Allegiance". _MEMRI_. Middle East Media Research Institute. 17 October 2006. Retrieved  10 February 2015. 
  238. **^** Negus, Stephen (15 October 2006). "Call for Sunni state in Iraq". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  23 September 2016. (Subscription required (help)). 
  239. **^** Roggio, Bill (16 October 2006). "The Rump Islamic Emirate of Iraq". _Long War Journal_. Retrieved  2 June 2014. 
  240. **^** "Al-Qaida in Iraq (AQI)". _Dudley Knox Library_. Naval Postgraduate School. Archived from the original on 1 April 2007. Retrieved  14 July 2014. 
  241. **^** "Islamic State of Iraq Announces Establishment of the Cabinet of its First Islamic Administration in Video Issued Through al-Furqan Foundation". SITE Institute. 19 April 2007. Archived from the original on 28 September 2007. Retrieved  20 July 2014. 
  242. **^** Mahnaimi, Uzi (13 May 2007). "Al-Qaeda planning militant Islamic state within Iraq". _The Sunday Times_. London. Archived from the original on 24 May 2011.  
  243. **^** Ricks, Thomas E. (11 September 2006). "Situation Called Dire in West Iraq". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  13 July 2014. 
  244. **^** Linzer, Dafna; Ricks, Thomas E. (28 November 2006). "Anbar Picture Grows Clearer, and Bleaker". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  18 July 2014. 
  245. **^** Engel, Richard (27 December 2006). "Reporting under al-Qaida control". MSNBC. Retrieved 28 October 2009. 
  246. **^** Engel, Richard (17 January 2007). "Dangers of the Baghdad plan". MSNBC. Archived from the original on 2 November 2007. Retrieved 28 October 2009. 
  247. **^** Roggio, Bill (13 November 2007). "Targeting al Qaeda in Iraq's Network". _The Weekly Standard_.  
  248. **^** Ricks, Thomas; DeYoung, Karen (15 October 2007). "Al-Qaeda in Iraq Reported Crippled". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  13 February 2015. 
  249. **^** Samuels, Lennox (20 May 2008). "Al Qaeda in Iraq Ramps Up Its Racketeering". _Newsweek_. Retrieved  13 February 2015. (subscription required) Accessible via Google.
  250. **^** Phillips, Andrew (2009). "How al Qaeda lost Iraq". _Australian Journal of International Affairs_. **63** (1): 64–84. doi:10.1080/10357710802649840.  
  251. **^** Kahl, Colin H . (2008). "When to Leave Iraq: Walk Before Running". _Foreign Affairs_. Vol.  87 no. 4\. pp. 151–54. JSTOR 20032727. 
  252. **^** Christie, Michael (18 November 2009). "Al Qaeda in Iraq becoming less foreign-US general". Reuters. 
  253. **^** Arango, Tim (22 August 2014). "Top Qaeda Leaders in Iraq Reported Killed in Raid". _The New York Times_.  
  254. **^** Shanker, Thom (4 June 2010). "Qaeda Leaders in Iraq Neutralized, US Says". _The New York Times_.  
  255. **^** "US says 80% of al-Qaeda leaders in Iraq removed". BBC News. 4 June 2010.  
  256. **^** "Attacks in Iraq down, Al-Qaeda arrests up: US general". Agence France-Presse. 4 June 2010. Archived from the original on 25 February 2014 – via Google News.  
  257. **^** Shadid, Anthony (16 May 2010). "Iraqi Insurgent Group Names New Leaders". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  22 August 2014. 
  258. **^** "Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi: Islamic State's driving force". BBC World News. 31 July 2014. Retrieved  19 August 2014. 
  259. **^** Sly, Liz (4 April 2015). "The hidden hand behind the Islamic State militants? Saddam Hussein's". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  260. **^** Arango, Tim; Schmidtt, Eric (10 August 2014). "U.S. Actions in Iraq Fueled Rise of a Rebel". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  28 August 2014. 
  261. **^** "Former Saddam Hussein spy masterminded the rise of Isis, says report". _The Guardian_. United Kingdom. Reuters. 20 April 2015. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  262. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Youssef, Maamoun (22 July 2012). "Al-Qaida: We're returning to old Iraq strongholds". Associated Press. Retrieved 22 August 2014 – via Yahoo! News. 
  263. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lewis, Jessica D. (September 2013). Al Qaeda in Iraq Resurgent (PDF) (Report). Institute for the Study of War. Retrieved 13 February 2015. 
  264. **^** Abouzeid, Rania (14 March 2014). "Syria: The story of the conflict". BBC News. Retrieved 22 August 2014. 
  265. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Abouzeid, Rania (23 June 2014). "The Jihad Next Door". Politico. Retrieved 22 August 2014. 
  266. **^** Benotman, Noman; Blake, Roisin (8 January 2013). Jabhat al-Nusra: A Strategic Briefing (PDF) (Report). Quilliam Foundation. Archived from the original (PDF) on 22 July 2014. Retrieved 22 August 2014. 
  267. **^** "Islamist group claims Syria bombs 'to avenge Sunnis '". Al Arabiya. 21 March 2012. Retrieved 23 March 2012. 
  268. **^** "Qaeda in Iraq confirms Syria's Nusra is part of network". GlobalPost. Agence France-Presse. 9 April 2013. Archived from the original on 13 May 2013. Retrieved  9 April 2013. 
  269. **^** "ISI Confirms That Jabhat Al-Nusra Is Its Extension in Syria, Declares 'Islamic State of Iraq And Al-Sham' As New Name of Merged Group". _MEMRI_. Middle East Media Research Institute. 8 April 2013. Archived from the original on 6 October 2014. Retrieved  10 April 2013. 
  270. **^** "Al-Nusra Commits to al-Qaida, Deny Iraq Branch 'Merger '". Naharnet. Agence France-Presse. 10 April 2013. Retrieved 18 May 2013. 
  271. **^** Atassi, Basma (9 June 2013). "Qaeda chief annuls Syrian-Iraqi jihad merger". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 10 June 2013. 
  272. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Atassi, Basma (15 June 2013). "Iraqi al-Qaeda chief rejects Zawahiri orders". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 15 June 2013. 
  273. **^** "Al Qaeda says it freed 500 inmates in Iraq jail-break". Reuters. 23 July 2013. Retrieved  22 August 2014. 
  274. **^** "Zawahiri disbands main Qaeda faction in Syria". _The Daily Star_. Beirut, Lebanon. 8 November 2013. Retrieved  8 November 2013. 
  275. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Sly, Liz (3 February 2014). "Al-Qaeda disavows any ties with radical Islamist ISIS group in Syria, Iraq". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  7 February 2014. 
  276. **^** Birke, Sarah (27 December 2013). "How al-Qaeda Changed the Syrian War". _New York Review of Books_.  
  277. **^** Platov, Vladimir (18 January 2014). "Growth of International Terrorist Threat from Syria". _New Eastern Outlook_. Retrieved  11 June 2014. 
  278. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (27 November 2013). "Chechen-led group swears allegiance to head of Islamic State of Iraq and Sham". _Long War Journal_. Retrieved  13 July 2014. 
  279. **^** "Syria crisis: Omar Shishani, Chechen jihadist leader". BBC News. 3 December 2013. Retrieved  8 December 2013. 
  280. **^** Cloud, David S.; Abdulrahim, Raja (21 June 2013). "U.S. training Syrian rebels; White House 'stepped up assistance'". _Los Angeles Times_.  
  281. **^** Saad, Hwaida; Gladstone, Rick (4 January 2014). "Qaeda-Linked Insurgents Clash With Other Rebels in Syria, as Schism Grows". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  16 January 2014. 
  282. **^** Casey-Baker, Mary; Haber, Joshua (7 January 2014). "Rebel factions continue fight against ISIL in Northern Syria". _Foreign Policy_. Retrieved  7 January 2014. 
  283. **^** "ISIL fighters pull out of key Syrian Turkmen town". _World Bulletin_. Retrieved  22 October 2014. 
  284. **^** "Syria Qaeda loses ground to jihadist rivals on Iraq border". _The Daily Star Newspaper – Lebanon_. Retrieved  25 October 2014. 
  285. **^** "ISIS reportedly kills Al Nusrah Front's commander for Idlib province". _The Long War Journal_.  
  286. **^** "Al-Qaida offshoot in fierce offensive, carves out territory across Syria and Iraq". Reuters. 10 June 2014. Retrieved  10 June 2014. 
  287. **^** "Al Nusra pledges allegiance to Isil". _Gulf News_. Agence France-Presse. 25 June 2014. Retrieved  29 June 2014. 
  288. **^** "Iraq government loses control of Fallujah". _Al-Jazeera_. January 4, 2014. Retrieved  11 December 2014. 
  289. **^** Lawrence, Jessica. "Iraq crisis: Could an ISIS caliphate ever govern the entire Muslim world?". ABC News (Australia). Retrieved 22 November 2014. 
  290. **^** Goodenough, Patrick (6 July 2014). "Self-Appointed 'Caliph' Makes First Public Appearance". _CNS News_. Retrieved  26 July 2014. 
  291. **^** Arango, Tim; Gordon, Michael R. (23 June 2014). "Iraqi Insurgents Secure Control of Border Posts". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  6 July 2014. 
  292. **^** Spencer, Richard (3 July 2014). "Saudi Arabia sends 30,000 troops to Iraq border". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  6 July 2014. 
  293. **^** Solomon, Erika; Kerr, Simeon (3 July 2014). "Saudi Arabia sends 30,000 troops to Iraq border". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  6 July 2014. (Subscription required (help)). 
  294. **^** "Syrians adjust to life under ISIS rule". _The Daily Star_. Beirut, Lebanon. 29 August 2014. Retrieved  29 August 2014. 
  295. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ressa, Maria A. (4 August 2014). "Senior Abu Sayyaf leader swears oath to ISIS". _Rappler_. Pasig City, Philippines.  
  296. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Oltermann, Philip (24 September 2014). "Islamists in Philippines threaten to kill German hostages". _The Guardian_.  
  297. **^** Fake passports for Isil terrorists 'found in Greek refugee camps'
  298. **^** 200 counter terrorism officers to hunt Isil in Greek islands
  299. **^** "Statement by the President". The White House. 7 August 2014. Retrieved  18 August 2014. 
  300. **^** Michael, Maggie (9 November 2014). "Libyan city declares itself part of Islamic State caliphate". CP24. Associated Press. 
  301. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Karim, Ammar; al-Atrush, Samer (10 November 2014). "Egypt jihadists vow loyalty to IS as Iraq probes leader's fate". Agence France-Presse – via Yahoo! News. 
  302. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Todd, Brian (22 January 2015). "ISIS gaining ground in Yemen, competing with al Qaeda". CNN. 
  303. **^** "Officials confirm ISIL present in Afghanistan". Al Jazeera. 18 January 2015.  
  304. **^** Sterman, David; Shah, Neeli (6 February 2015). "ISIS Reportedly Kills Afghan Taliban Commander; Modi to Visit China; Pakistan Tests Cruise Missile". _Foreign Policy_.  
  305. **^** "ISIS active in south Afghanistan, officials confirm for first time". CBS News. 12 January 2015. Retrieved  6 February 2015. 
  306. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Afghanistan drone strike 'kills IS commander Abdul Rauf '". BBC News. 9 February 2015. Retrieved 24 February 2015. 
  307. **^** "Boko Haram swears formal allegiance to ISIS". Fox News Channel. Associated Press. 8 March 2015.  
  308. **^** "Jonathan tasks Defence, Foreign Ministers of Nigeria, Chad, Cameroon, Niger, Benin on Boko Haram's defeat". sunnewsonline.com. Archived from the original on 19 January 2015.  
  309. **^** Adeel, Mirwais. "Uzbek militants in Afghanistan pledge allegiance to ISIS in beheading video". _Khaama Press_. Kabul, Afghanistan.  
  310. **^** Lemon, Edward (1 August 2015). "IMU Pledges Allegiance to Islamic State". _EurasiaNet_. The Open Society Institute.  
  311. **^** "More than 10,000 jihadists killed since coalition raids: US". _Yahoo News Singapore_. 3 June 2015. Archived from the original on 24 June 2015. Retrieved  8 June 2015. 
  312. **^** Smith-Spark, Laura; Martel, Noisette (3 June 2015). "U.S. official: 10,000 ISIS fighters killed in 9 months". CNN. 
  313. **^** Alkhshali, Hamdi; Karadsheh, Jomana (31 March 2015). "Iraq: Parts of Tikrit taken back from ISIS". CNN. Retrieved 31 March 2015. 
  314. **^** "US praises role of Iranian-backed Shiite militias in Baiji operation". _The Long War Journal_. Retrieved  27 May 2016. 
  315. **^** Arango, Tim (13 November 2015). "Sinjar Victory Bolsters Kurds, but Could Further Alienate U.S. From Iraq". New York Times. Retrieved 19 October 2016. 
  316. **^** Gordon, Michael; Callimachi, Rukmini (12 November 2015). "Kurds Retake Strategic Highway in Iraq's North From ISIS". New York Times. Retrieved 19 October 2016. 
  317. **^** "Iraq Claims a Key Victory Over ISIS in Ramadi, Seizes Government Complex". NBC News.  
  318. **^** "Iraqi commander: Fallujah 'fully liberated' from ISIS". _Fox News_. Fox News Network. Retrieved  30 June 2016. 
  319. **^** Syrian regime recaptures Palmyra from Islamic State
  320. **^** "Raqqa: IS 'capital' falls to US-backed Syrian forces". _BBC News_. 17 October 2017. Retrieved  17 October 2017. 
  321. **^** "ISIS ousted from last major city in Syria, state media reports". _CNN_. 4 November 2017. Retrieved  4 November 2017. 
  322. **^** "IRAQI FORCES RETAKE THE COUNTRY'S LAST IS-HELD TOWN". _AP News_. 17 November 2017. Retrieved  17 November 2017. 
  323. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Iran's president declares end of Islamic State, Reuters,Babak Dehghanpisheh, 21 Nov 2017
  324. **^** "IPutin claims victory over Isis in Syria during surprise visit from Assad". _the Times_. 21 Nov 2017. Retrieved  21 November 2017. 
  325. **^** ABADI ANNOUNCES MILITARY DEFEAT OF ISIS IN IRAQ
  326. **^** Amara, Tarek (26 June 2015). "Gunman kills 39 at Tunisian beachside hotel, Islamic State claims attack". Reuters. 
  327. **^** Al-Othman, Hannah (14 November 2015). "Paris attacks: Islamic State claims responsibility as French President Francois Hollande promises "merciless" revenge". _London Evening Standard_. Retrieved  14 November 2015. 
  328. **^** "Yemen conflict: Governor of Aden killed in Islamic State attack". BBC News. 6 December 2015.  
  329. **^** "Islamic State claims attacks at Brussels airport and metro station". _The Guardian_. 22 March 2016.  
  330. **^** Shane, Scott (2016-08-25). "Saudis and Extremism: 'Both the Arsonists and the Firefighters'". _The New York Times_. ISSN 0362-4331. Retrieved  2017-06-22. 
  331. **^** "Forces in Iraq and Syria discovers 72 mass graves in areas freed from ISIS". Iraqi News. 30 August 2016.  
  332. **^** "Iraq's Fallujah falls to 'Qaeda-linked' militants". _Daily Star_. 4 January 2014. Retrieved  10 June 2014. 
  333. **^** "How ISIS Rules". _The New York Review of Books_. Retrieved  9 December 2015. 
  334. **^** Caris, Charles C.; Reynolds, Samuel (July 2014). "ISIS Governance in Syria" (PDF). Institute for the Study of War. 
  335. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Islamic State moves in on al-Qaeda turf". BBC News. 25 June 2015. Retrieved  7 July 2015. 
  336. **^** "Islamic State in Somalia claims capture of port town". _The Long War Journal_. 26 October 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2016. 
  337. **^** "How Bangladesh Became Fertile Ground for al-Qa`ida and the Islamic State". _CTC Sentinel_. 25 May 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2016. 
  338. **^** "The Islamic State grows in the Philippines". _The Long War Journal_. 24 June 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2016. 
  339. **^** "Has the Islamic State Abandoned Its Provincial Model in the Philippines?". 22 July 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2017. 
  340. **^** Schmitt, Eric; Kirkpatrick, David D. (14 February 2015). "Islamic State Sprouting Limbs Beyond Its Base". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  23 February 2015. 
  341. **^** Laessing, Ulf (21 May 2015). "Gaddafi's home town falls to Islamic State in anarchic Libya". Reuters. Retrieved 17 August 2015. 
  342. **^** Morajea, Hassan (6 June 2015). "Libyan gains may offer ISIS a base for new attacks". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  10 June 2015. 
  343. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Islamic State Expanding into North Africa". _Der Spiegel_. Hamburg, Germany. 18 November 2014. Retrieved  25 November 2014. 
  344. **^** "ISIS comes to Libya". CNN. 18 November 2014. Retrieved  20 November 2014. 
  345. **^** "Islamic State 'forced out' of key Libyan city of Derna". BBC. 21 April 2016.  
  346. **^** Eljarh, Mohamed (24 June 2015). "A Victory Over the Islamic State in Libya". _Foreign Policy_. Retrieved  4 July 2015. 
  347. **^** "Libyan security forces pushing Islamic State back from vicinity of oil terminals". _www.reuters.com_. 31 May 2016. Retrieved  31 May 2016. 
  348. **^** "Libyan brigades capture air base from Islamic State south of Sirte: spokesman". 4 June 2016. Retrieved  24 June 2016 – via Reuters. 
  349. **^** "Libyan forces clear last Islamic State hold-out in Sirte". Reuters. Retrieved  6 December 2016. 
  350. **^** al-Warfalli, Ayman (21 February 2016). "Army claims advances in Libyan cities of Benghazi and Ajdabiya". Benghazi, Libya: Reuters. 
  351. **^** "Libyan National Army claims ISIS pushed out of Ajdabiya, parts of Benghazi". CBC News. Thomson Reuters. 21 February 2016.  
  352. **^** al-Warfalli, Ayman (21 February 2016). "Libya army claims advances in Benghazi". Al Arabiya English. 
  353. **^** "Libyan forces announce "liberation' of Sirte from Daesh". Al Bawaba. Retrieved  18 December 2016. 
  354. **^** "LNA finally takes Benghazi's Sidi Akribesh after 4-month siege: report". _Libyan herald_.  
  355. **^** "Egyptian militant group pledges loyalty to Islamic State in audio clip". Reuters. 10 November 2014. Retrieved  11 November 2014. 
  356. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (14 November 2014). "Sinai-based jihadist group rebranded as Islamic State's official arm". _Long War Journal_. Retrieved  15 November 2014. 
  357. **^** Zelin, Aaron Y. (14 November 2014). "The Islamic State's Archipelago of Provinces". _Washington Institute for Near East Policy_. Retrieved  15 November 2014. 
  358. **^** "Interior Ministry analyzes Ansar Bayt al-Maqdis statement over assassination attempt". Cairo, Egypt: State Information Services. 10 September 2013. Retrieved  26 December 2013. 
  359. **^** "IS claims responsibility for Gaza's French Cultural Centre blast, reports". _Middle East Eye_. 8 October 2014. Retrieved  9 October 2014. 
  360. **^** "Egypt Sinai crash probe finds 'no evidence of terrorism '". BBC News. Retrieved 17 December 2015. 
  361. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Fadel, Leila (18 November 2014). "With Cash And Cachet, The Islamic State Expands Its Empire". NPR. 
  362. **^** Roul, Animesh (3 April 2015). "'Wilayat Khurasan': Islamic State Consolidates Position in AfPak Region". _Terrorism Monitor_. Vol.  13 no. 7\. Jamestown Foundation. Retrieved 13 April 2015. 
  363. **^** Roggio, Bill (2 February 2015). "Pakistani Taliban emir for Bajaur joins Islamic State". _Long War Journal_.  
  364. **^** "Afghan Army Kills Commander of ISIL Affiliate". _Al-Masdar News_. 18 March 2015.  
  365. **^** "IS leader in Afghanistan killed, US believes". _BBC News_. 12 August 2016.  
  366. **^** "Yemeni Al-Qaeda leader hails ISIS gains in Iraq". Sana'a, Yemen: Al Arabiya English. Reuters. 13 August 2014.  
  367. **^** "Al-Qaeda Supporters in Yemen 'Pledge Allegiance to Islamic State '". _Newsweek_. Reuters. 11 February 2015.  (Subscription required (help)). 
  368. **^** "ISIL affiliate claims deadly Eid blasts at Yemen mosque". _Al Jazeera_. 24 September 2015.  
  369. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gambhir, Harleen (10 May 2015). ISIS Global Intelligence Summary, March 1 – May 7, 2015 (PDF) (Report). Institute for the Study of War. Retrieved 12 May 2015. 
  370. **^** "Islamic State bomb attack on Houthi rebel leaders in Yemen leaves 28 dead". _The Guardian_. 30 June 2015.  
  371. **^** Loveluck, Louisa (30 June 2015). "Islamic State targets Houthi mourners in Yemen with car bomb". _The Telegraph_. London.  
  372. **^** "US steps up arms for Saudi campaign in Yemen". Al Jazeera. 8 April 2015.  
  373. **^** Perry, Mark (17 April 2015). "US generals: Saudi intervention in Yemen 'a bad idea'". Al Jazeera. 
  374. **^** Shaheen, Kareem (7 July 2015). "Jihadis likely winners of Saudi Arabia's futile war on Yemen's Houthi rebels". _The Guardian_.  
  375. **^** "Nigeria's Boko Haram pledges allegiance to Islamic State". BBC News. 7 March 2015. Retrieved  7 March 2015. 
  376. **^** Chandler, Adam (9 March 2015). "The Islamic State of Boko Haram? :The terrorist group has pledged its allegiance to ISIS. But what does that really mean?". _The Atlantic_.  
  377. **^** "Boko Haram in Nigeria: Abu Musab al-Barnawi named as new leader". _BBC News_. 3 August 2016. Retrieved  3 August 2016. 
  378. **^** "Behind Boko Haram's Split: A Leader Too Radical for Islamic State". Wall Street Journal. 15 September 2016. Retrieved  2 October 2016. (subscription required)
  379. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Vatchagaev, Mairbek (13 February 2015). "Caucasus Emirate and Islamic State Split Slows Militant Activities in North Caucasus". _Eurasia Daily Monitor_. Vol.  12 no. 29\. The Jamestown Foundation. 
  380. **^** Reuters (June 10, 2017). "US Special Forces Helping Philippines Fight Militants in Marawi". 
  381. **^** "Duterte: Marawi 'liberated' from ISIL-linked fighters". _www.aljazeera.com_. Retrieved  25 October 2017. 
  382. **^** "Marawi: Philippines declares end of siege as troops find 40 suspected gunmen dead". _www.abc.net.au_. Retrieved  28 October 2017. 
  383. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ al-Ghoul, Asmaa (27 February 2014). "Gaza Salafists pledge allegiance to ISIS". _Al-Monitor_. Gaza City, Gaza Strip. Retrieved  25 September 2014. 
  384. **^** Levy, Rachael (1 July 2014). "Egyptian group claims it killed the Three Israeli Teens". _Vocative_. Retrieved  2 June 2015. 
  385. **^** "Egypt attack: Profile of Sinai Province militant group". _BBC News_. BBC Monitoring. 30 January 2015. Retrieved  2 June 2015. 
  386. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Levy, Rachael (9 June 2014). "ISIS: We Are Operating in Gaza". _Vocative_. Retrieved  2 June 2015. 
  387. **^** Luck, Taylor (23 July 2014). "Local jihadist group pledges allegiance to Islamic State". _The Jordan Times_. Amman, Jordan: Jordan Press Foundation. Archived from the original on 24 July 2014. Retrieved  6 June 2015. 
  388. **^** "Two more of IS-linked group detained, to be handed over to NIA". _Hindustan Times_. New Delhi. Press Trust of India. 27 January 2016.  
  389. **^** Bearak, Max (19 July 2016). "Brazilian extremist group uses Telegram to pledge allegiance to ISIS ahead of Olympics". _The Washington Post_. Washington, DC.  
  390. **^** "Dette er Profetens Ummah i Norge". _Aftenposten_ (in Norwegian). 13 July 2014.  
  391. **^** Skjærli, Brynjar (16 August 2014). "Støtter IS' halshugging" (in Norwegian). Retrieved 31 August 2014. 
  392. **^** Kwok, Yenni (28 December 2015). "Is There a Uighur Terrorist Buildup Taking Place in Southeast Asia?". _TIME_. Retrieved  10 September 2017. 
  393. **^** Ban Ki-Moon (24 September 2014). "Secretary-General's remarks to Security Council High-Level Summit on Foreign Terrorist Fighters". United Nations. Retrieved 18 November 2014. 
  394. **^** Hassan, Steven (21 October 2014). "ISIS Is a Cult That Uses Terrorism: A Fresh New Strategy". _The World Post_. Retrieved  10 November 2014. 
  395. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hasan, Mehdi (10 March 2015). "Mehdi Hasan: How Islamic is Islamic State?". _New Statesman_. Retrieved  7 July 2015. Consider the various statements of Muslim groups such as the Organisation of Islamic Co-operation, representing 57 countries (Isis has "nothing to do with Islam"); the Islamic Society of North America (Isis's actions are "in no way representative of what Islam actually teaches"); al-Azhar University in Cairo, the most prestigious seat of learning in the Sunni Muslim world (Isis is acting "under the guise of this holy religion . . . in an attempt to export their false Islam"); and even Saudi Arabia's Salafist Grand Mufti, Abdul Aziz al ash-Sheikh (Isis is "the number-one enemy of Islam"). 
  396. **^** Al-Yaqoubi, Muhammad (2015). _Refuting ISIS: A Rebuttal Of Its Religious And Ideological Foundations_. Sacred Knowledge. pp.  xvii–xviii. ISBN 978-1-908224-12-5. 
  397. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Khan, Sheema (29 September 2014). "Another battle with Islam's 'true believers'". _The Globe and Mail_. Toronto, Canada.  
  398. **^** Hasan, Usama (July 2012). The Balance of Islam in Challenging Extremism (PDF) (Report). Quilliam Foundation. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2 August 2014. 
  399. **^** Jebara, Mohamad (6 February 2015). "Imam Mohamad Jebara: Fruits of the tree of extremism". _Ottawa Citizen_.  
  400. **^** Al-Yaqoubi, Muhammad (2015). _Refuting ISIS: A Rebuttal Of Its Religious And Ideological Foundations_. Sacred Knowledge. pp.  xvii–xviii. ISBN 978-1-908224-12-5.  See also p.8.
  401. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The slow backlash – Sunni religious authorities turn against Islamic State". _The Economist_. 6 September 2014.  
  402. **^** "Saudi Arabia's Grand Mufti denounces Islamic State group as un-Islamic". Reuters. 25 August 2014. Retrieved  18 November 2014. 
  403. **^** Shaikh, Amad (1 October 2014). "Muslim Scholars Letter to al-Baghdadi of ISIS or ISIL – A Missed Opportunity". _Muslim Matters_. Retrieved  8 November 2014. 
  404. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Markoe, Lauren (24 September 2013). "Muslim Scholars Release Open Letter to Islamic State Meticulously Blasting Its Ideology". _The Huffington Post_. Religious News Service. Retrieved  25 September 2014. 
  405. **^** Smith, Samuel (25 September 2014). "International Coalition of Muslim Scholars Refute ISIS' Religious Arguments in Open Letter to al-Baghdadi". _The Christian Post_. Retrieved  18 October 2014. 
  406. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Open Letter to Al-Baghdadi". September 2014. Archived from the original on 25 September 2014. Retrieved  25 September 2014. 
  407. **^** Milmo, Cahal (25 September 2014). "Isis is 'an offence to Islam', says international coalition of major Islamic scholars". _independent_. London. Retrieved  8 October 2014. More than 120 Sunni imams and academics, including some of the Muslim world's most respected scholars, signed the 18-page document which outlines 24 separate grounds on which the terror group violates the tenets of Islam. 
  408. **^** Al-Yaqoubi, Muhammad (2015). _Refuting ISIS: A Rebuttal Of Its Religious And Ideological Foundations_. Sacred Knowledge. p.  19\. ISBN 978-1-908224-12-5. 
  409. **^** " "They're delusional": Rivals ridicule ISIS declaration of Islamic state". CBS News. 30 June 2014. Retrieved 4 July 2014. 
  410. **^** Strange, Hannah (5 July 2014). "Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi addresses Muslims in Mosul". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  6 July 2014. 
  411. **^** Creswell, Robyn; Haykel, Bernard (8 June 2015). "Battle Lines". _The New Yorker_. Retrieved  6 June 2015. In the most recent issue of Dabiq, ISIS's English-language magazine, a female writer encourages women to emigrate to "the lands of the Islamic State" even if it means travelling without a male companion, a shocking breach of traditional Islamic law. This may be a cynical ploy—a lure for runaways. But it is in keeping with the jihadists’ attack on parental authority and its emphasis on individual empowerment, including the power of female believers to renounce families they do not view as authentically Muslim. 
  412. **^** Creswell, Robyn; Haykel, Bernard (8 June 2015). "Battle Lines". _The New Yorker_. Retrieved  6 June 2015. It has also created a female morality police, a shadowy group called the al-Khansa’ Brigades, who insure proper deportment in ISIS-held towns. ... Al-Khansa’ was a female poet of the pre-Islamic era who converted to Islam and became a companion of the Prophet, and her elegies for her male relations are keystones of the genre [of Islamic poetry]. The name therefore suggests an institution with deep roots in the past, and yet there has never been anything like the Brigades in Islamic history, nor do they have an equivalent anywhere else in the Arab world. 
  413. **^** Al-Yaqoubi, Muhammad (2015). _Refuting ISIS: A Rebuttal Of Its Religious And Ideological Foundations_. Sacred Knowledge. p.  37\. ISBN 978-1-908224-12-5. 
  414. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Halleck, Thomas (26 September 2014). "Thousands of French Muslims Protest Herve Gourdel Beheading". _International Business Times_. Retrieved  28 September 2014. 
  415. **^** " 'Not in my name': French Muslims rally to denounce ISIS beheadings". RT. 26 September 2014. Retrieved 13 October 2014. 
  416. **^** _Ghosts of Aleppo (Full Length)_. VICE News. 30 September 2014 – via YouTube.  
  417. **^** "Ghosts of Aleppo (Full Length)". _VICE News_.  
  418. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (25 October 2015). "Al Qaeda appears 'moderate' compared to Islamic State, veteran jihadist says". _Long War Journal_.  
  419. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (26 October 2015). "A rare interview with an experienced Al Qaeda commander shows how the group is using ISIS to make itself look 'moderate'". _Business Insider_. Retrieved  20 November 2015. 
  420. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (5 June 2015). "The Al Nusrah Front's 'inherited jihad'". _Long War Journal_.  
  421. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (20 July 2015). "Officials from Al Nusrah Front, Ahrar al Sham vow to continue fight against Islamic State". _Long War Journal_.  
  422. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (9 February 2015). "Al Qaeda Uses ISIS to Try to Present Itself as Respectable, Even Moderate". _The Weekly Standard_.  
  423. **^** Rikab, Waleed (9 September 2015). "The Plight of Syria's Druze Minority and U.S. Options". _Syria Comment_.  
  424. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (2 November 2015). "Al Qaeda chief calls for jihadist unity to 'liberate Jerusalem'". _Long War Journal_.  
  425. **^** _Uncover the Mask with Evidence and Confidence كشف القناع بالحجة ولإقناع داعش_. YouTube. 8 March 2015. Retrieved  4 August 2015. 
  426. **^** "Number of ISIS defectors growing, disillusioned with killing fellow Muslims: Study". _The Straits Times_. London. Agence France-Presse. 21 September 2015. Archived from the original on 25 September 2015.  
  427. **^** Neumann, Peter R. (22 September 2015). "Defectors: ISIS is killing Muslims, not protecting them". CNN. Retrieved 13 October 2015. 
  428. **^** Robins-Early, Nick (21 September 2015). "New Report Reveals Why Fighters Are Quitting ISIS". _The Huffington Post_. Retrieved  13 October 2015. 
  429. **^** "A 'disgraceful reality': Islamic State spies posing as defectors". _Syria Direct_. 5 November 2015.  
  430. **^** "Head of Egypt's al-Azhar condemns ISIS 'barbarity '". Al Arabiya English. Agence France-Presse. 3 December 2014. 
  431. **^** Al-Awsat, Asharq (13 December 2014). "Egypt's Al-Azhar stops short of declaring ISIS apostates – Azhar statement rejects practice of takfirism". _Asharq Al Awsat_.  
  432. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Maged, Amany (15 January 2015). "In search of 'renewal' – Al-Azhar is at the centre of an escalating controversy". _Al Ahram Weekly_.  
  433. **^** Fouad, Ahmed. "Al-Azhar refuses to consider the Islamic State an apostate". _Al-Monitor_.  The sheikh of Al-Azhar, Ahmed al-Tayeb, repeated his rejection of declaring IS apostates on 1 Jan, during a meeting with editors-in-chief of Egyptian newspapers. This sparked criticism from a number of religious, political and media parties, especially since Al-Azhar could have renounced the Nigerian mufti's statement on IS without addressing the issue of whether or not Al-Azhar considers the group apostates 
  434. **^** "Sheikh Al-Azhar Speech in opening of conference". _Muslim World League_. 22 February 2015.  
  435. **^** Agarwall, Priyangi (9 December 2015). "70,000 clerics issue fatwa against terrorism, 15 lakh Muslims support it". _The Times of India_. TNN.  
  436. **^** Jckson, Molly (10 December 2015). "70,000 Indian clerics issue fatwa against terrorists". _The Christian Science Monitor_.  
  437. **^** Mortimer, Caroline (10 December 2015). "70,000 Muslim clerics just issued a fatwa against terrorism". _The Independent_.  
  438. **^** Staff writers (2 August 2016). "Al-Qaradawi: Rulers Of UAE And Daesh Leaders Are Two Sides Of The Same Coin | English – Middle East Press News Agency". _Middle East News Agency_. Retrieved  4 August 2016. 
  439. **^** "Al-Qaida Sanctions List". United Nations. Archived from the original on 25 September 2014. Retrieved  2 October 2014. 
  440. **^** "The Al-Qaida and Taliban Sanctions Committee – 1267". _United Nations Web Services Section_. United Nations. Archived from the original on 5 April 2015.  
  441. **^** "Security Council Al-Qaida Sanctions Committee Amends Entry". Retrieved  8 June 2015. 
  442. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Wahlisch, Martin (2010). "EU Terrorist Listing – An Overview about Listing and Delisting Procedures" (PDF). Berghof Foundation. Retrieved 3 November 2014. 
  443. **^** "Proscribed Terrorist Organisations, pp.13–15" (PDF). Home Office. 20 June 2014. Archived from the original (PDF) on 15 August 2014. Retrieved 7 November 2014. 
  444. **^** "Foreign Terrorist Organizations". Bureau of Counterterrorism. United States Department of State. Retrieved  28 July 2014. 
  445. **^** "Listed terrorist organisations". Australian National Security. Retrieved  31 July 2014. 
  446. **^** "Currently listed entities". Public Safety Canada. Retrieved  31 July 2014. 
  447. **^** Kaplan, Hilal (3 September 2014). "Charging Turkey for ISIS". _Daily Sabah_. Istanbul, Turkey. Retrieved  28 September 2014. 
  448. **^** Mahcupyan, Etyen (20 September 2014). "ISIS, Turkey and the US". _Daily Sabah_. Istanbul, Turkey. Retrieved  28 September 2014. 
  449. **^** "Saudi Arabia designates Muslim Brotherhood terrorist group". Reuters. 7 March 2014. Retrieved  31 July 2014. 
  450. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "BNPT Declares ISIS a Terrorist Organization". _Tempo_. 2 August 2014. Retrieved  4 August 2014. 
  451. **^** "List of terror groups published by United Arab Emirates". Archived from the original on 28 January 2015.  
  452. **^** "Malaysia designates ISIS as terrorist group, vows tough action: Report". _The Straits Times_. Singapore. 25 September 2014. Archived from the original on 25 September 2014. Retrieved  25 September 2014. 
  453. **^** "Court affirms ISIS' 'terrorist group' designation". _Daily News Egypt_. Archived from the original on 8 December 2014.  
  454. **^** "Egypt brands jihadist ISIL a 'terrorist group '". _Hürriyet Daily News_. Istanbul, Turkey. 30 November 2014.  
  455. **^** "Banned Organisations". Retrieved  16 December 2014. 
  456. **^** "India bans IS". _The Hindu_. Chennai, India. Press Trust of India. 16 December 2014. Retrieved  16 December 2014. 
  457. **^** "Russia calls on all states to put Islamic State, Jabhat al-Nusra on terrorist lists". Russian News Agency TASS. 29 December 2015. Retrieved  29 December 2014. 
  458. **^** Paraszczuk, Joanna. "Kyrgyzstan Bans IS, Designates It As Terror Group". Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. Retrieved 26 March 2015. 
  459. **^** Manal. "Syria condemns terrorist acts in Iraq, expresses solidarity with Iraqi government, army and people". Syrian Arab News Agency. 
  460. **^** "Jordan launches airstrikes against ISIS". News Corp Australia. 6 February 2015. Retrieved  7 August 2015. 
  461. **^** "Report says ISIL terrorist group has a base near US". _Iran Daily_. 16 April 2015. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  462. **^** "Iraq arrests dozens of ISIL members in Baghdad". _Press TV_. 15 March 2015. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  463. **^** "Larijani Reminds Regional States of Iran's Sacrifices against ISIL Terrorists". _Fars News Agency_. 12 March 2015. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  464. **^** "Iran Says Arrests ISIL Suspects at Border". _Tasnim News Agency_. 8 September 2014. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  465. **^** "Iranian Official: US Not Serious about Countering ISIL Terrorists". _Al-Alam_. 26 September 2014. Retrieved  21 April 2015. 
  466. **^** "Iraq: Listed Terrorist Groups and Humanitarian Crises". _Charity and Security Network_. Retrieved  2017-07-31. 
  467. **^** "No Room for terrorist". _T &T Guardian_. Retrieved 2017-08-05. 
  468. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gishkori, Zahid. "Islamic State listed among proscribed outfits". _The Express Tribune_. Pakistan.  
  469. **^** "IS叫戰 點名台灣 – 蘋果日報".  
  470. **^** "Xi Jinping's speech on the event of a Chinese citizen being killed by terrorist organization" (in Chinese). www.mfa.gov.cn. Retrieved  14 December 2016. 
  471. **^** "Resolution 1267 (1999) Adopted by the Security Council at its 4051st meeting on 15 October 1999". UNHCR.  
  472. **^** Eddy, Melissa (12 September 2014). "Germany Bans Support for ISIS". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  19 November 2014. 
  473. **^** Roberts, Janette (17 September 2014). "ISIL banned in Germany". _Sixth Sense_. Archived from the original on 3 January 2015.  
  474. **^** "Drucksache 18/759" (PDF) (in German). Deutscher Bundestag. 
  475. **^** "Switzerland bans ISIL". Anadolu Agency. 8 October 2014.  
  476. **^** Pandey, Avaneesh (16 December 2014). "India Bans ISIS After Government Raises Concerns Over Group's Online Presence". _International Business Times_.  
  477. **^** Lister, Tim (13 June 2014). "ISIS: The first terror group to build an Islamic state?". CNN. Retrieved 14 June 2014. 
  478. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Vick, Karl; Baker, Aryn (11 June 2014). "Extremists in Iraq Continue March Toward Baghdad". _Time_. Retrieved  23 June 2014. 
  479. **^** Mazzetti, Mark; Schmitt, Eric; Landler, Mark (10 September 2014). "Struggling to Gauge ISIS Threat, Even as U.S. Prepares to Act". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  11 September 2014. 
  480. **^** Porter, Tom (10 August 2015). "Iraq War Created Isis, Concedes David Miliband". _International Business Times_. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  481. **^** Mishra, Pankaj (24 July 2015). "How to think about Islamic State". _The Guardian_.  
  482. **^** "National Security Presidential Memorandum no. 3" (PDF). 
  483. **^** "» Views of ISIS Overwhelmingly Negative". _Pew Research Center_. 17 November 2015.  
  484. **^** Jacob Poushter191 comments. "Most dislike ISIS in Muslim countries | Pew Research Center". Web.archive.org. Archived from the original on 5 May 2016. Retrieved 21 May 2016. CS1 maint: Unfit url (link)
  485. **^** "Concerns about Islamic Extremism on the Rise in Middle East | Pew Research Center". Pewglobal.org. Retrieved  21 May 2016. 
  486. **^** Black, Ian (19 June 2014). "Saudi Arabia rejects Iraqi accusations of Isis support". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  19 June 2014. 
  487. **^** Parker, Ned; Ireland, Louise (9 March 2014). "Iraqi PM Maliki says Saudi, Qatar openly funding violence in Anbar". Reuters. 
  488. **^** Husain, Ed (22 August 2014). "ISIS Atrocities Started With Saudi Support For Salafi Hate". _The New York Times_.  
  489. **^** Boghardt, Lori Plotkin (23 June 2014). "Saudi Funding of ISIS". Washington Institute. 
  490. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Iraq crisis: How Saudi Arabia helped Isis take over the north of the country," _The Independent,_ 13 July 2014.
  491. **^** Goodenough, Patrick (9 July 2014). "Saudis Deny Supporting ISIS After Former MI6 Head Speaks of 'Substantial and Sustained Funding'". CNSNews.com. 
  492. **^** Cockburn, Patrick (14 October 2016). "We finally know what Hillary Clinton knew all along – US allies Saudi Arabia and Qatar are funding Isis". _The Independent_.  
  493. **^** Schwartz, Mattathias (13 October 2016). "Hillary Clinton acknowledges Saudi terror financing in hacked email, hinting at tougher approach". _The Intercept_.  
  494. **^** "Podesta leaks show Clinton email linking Saudi Arabia, Qatar to ISIS". Fox News. 11 October 2016.  
  495. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Narwani, Sharmine (28 June 2017). "Dispatch From the Middle East: U.S. Buildup All About Iran". _The American Conservative_.  
  496. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "ISIS reportedly massacres dozens in Syrian village". CBS News. Associated Press. 31 March 2015.  
  497. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Turkey's Arab Alawites stand at a crossroads". _The National_. 6 December 2014.  
  498. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sherlock, Ruth (11 August 2013). "Syrian rebels accused of sectarian murders". _The Daily Telegraph_. London.  Hundreds of Alawite civilians have been killed, kidnapped or have disappeared during a rebel offensive on President Bashar al-Assad's heartland province of Latakia, local residents have reported. 
  499. **^** Sly, Liz (9 September 2014). "Syria's Assad thinks he is winning. He could be wrong". _The Washington Post_.  
  500. **^** Laub, Zachary; Masters, Jonathan (16 November 2015). "CFR Backgrounders – The Islamic State". Council on Foreign Relations. Some analysts have even described a tacit nonaggression pact between Islamic State militants and Bashar al-Assad regime, with each focused on fighting the main antigovernment opposition forces for territorial control. 
  501. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Baker, Aryn (27 January 2014). "Is the Assad Regime in League with al-Qaeda?". _Time_. Retrieved  6 July 2015. 
  502. **^** Cordall, Simon Speakwell (21 June 2014). "How Syria's Assad Helped Forge ISIS". _Newsweek_. Retrieved  9 March 2015. 
  503. **^** Kelley, Michael B. (21 January 2014). "It's Becoming Clear That Assad Fueled The Al-Qaeda Surge That Has Kept Him in Power". _Business Insider_. Retrieved  9 March 2015. 
  504. **^** Blair, David (7 March 2015). "Oil middleman between Syria and Isil is new target for EU sanctions". _The Daily Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  9 March 2015. 
  505. **^** "Kerry: There Is Evidence That Assad Has Played "Footsie" With ISIL". RealClearPolitics. 18 September 2014. Retrieved  9 March 2015. JOHN KERRY: Regrettably Congressman, no we're not going to be undercut, because. If Assad's forces indeed do decide to focus on ISIL significantly, which they haven't been doing throughout this period, one of our judgements is there is evidence that Assad has played footsie with them, and he has used them as a tool of weakening the opposition. He never took on their headquarters, which were there and obvious, and other assets that they have. So we have no confidence that Assad is either capable of or willing to take on ISIL." 
  506. **^** Vinograd, Cassandra; Omar, Ammar Cheikh (11 December 2014). "Syria, ISIS Have Been 'Ignoring' Each Other on Battlefield, Data Suggests". NBC. Retrieved 9 March 2015. [ _undue weight? – discuss_]
  507. **^** "Has Assad infiltrated rebel forces inside Syria?". Channel Four News. 24 April 2014. Retrieved  9 March 2015. 
  508. **^** Ridley, Yyonne (22 September 2014). "EXCLUSIVE: Shaikh Hassan Abboud's final interview". Middle East Monitor. Retrieved 9 March 2015. 
  509. **^** Philps, Alan (25 June 2015). "Rebels are close to Raqqa – but what happens next?". _The National_. Abu Dhabi, UAE. Retrieved  20 August 2015. 
  510. **^** U.S. Embassy Syria [@USEmbassySyria] (1 June 2015). "Reports indicate that the regime is making air-strikes in support of #ISIL's advance on #Aleppo, aiding extremists against Syrian population" (Tweet). Retrieved 2 June 2015 – via Twitter. 
  511. **^** Barnard, Anne (2 June 2015). "Assad's Forces May Be Aiding New ISIS Surge". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  5 June 2015. 
  512. **^** Bar'el, Zvi (3 June 2015). "Assad's cooperation with ISIS could push U.S. into Syria conflict". _Haaretz_. Tel Aviv, Israel. Retrieved  4 June 2015. Salim Idris, defense minister in the rebels’ provisional government, said approximately 180 Syrian Army officers are currently serving with ISIS and coordinating the group's military operations with the army. 
  513. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Bertrand, Natasha (28 July 2015). "Senior Western official: Links between Turkey and ISIS are now 'undeniable'". Business Insider – via Yahoo! New. 
  514. **^** Zaman, Amberin (10 June 2014). "Syrian Kurds continue to blame Turkey for backing ISIS militants". _Al-Monitor_.  
  515. **^** Wilgenburg, Wladimir van (6 August 2014). "Kurdish security chief: Turkey must end support for jihadists". _Al-Monitor_.  
  516. **^** Cockburn, Patrick (6 November 2014). "Whose side is Turkey on?". _London Review of Books_. Vol.  36 no. 21\. pp. 8–10. 
  517. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Phillips, David L. (9 November 2014). "Research Paper: ISIS-Turkey List". _The Huffington Post_.  
  518. **^** Guiton, Barney (7 November 2014). "'ISIS Sees Turkey as Its Ally': Former Islamic State Member Reveals Turkish Army Cooperation". _Newsweek_.  
  519. **^** Ben-Solomon, Ariel (30 July 2014). "Islamic State fighter: 'Turkey paved the way for us'". _The Jerusalem Post_.  
  520. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Faiola, Anthony; Mekhennet, Souad (12 August 2014). "In Turkey, a late crackdown on Islamist fighters". _The Washington Post_.  
  521. **^** Williams, Lauren (4 January 2015). "ISIS Has Polarized Turkey Domestically". _The Daily Star_. Assyrian International News Agency.  
  522. **^** Tattersall, Nick; Karouny, Mariam (26 August 2014). "Turkey's 'Open Border' Policy With Syria Has Backfired As ISIS Recruitment Continues". _Business Insider_.  
  523. **^** Schanzer, Jonathan (25 September 2014). "Boosting Turkey as it backs terror". _New York Post_.  
  524. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Greenhill, Sam (25 August 2014). "How seven radicalised young Britons a week are taking the Gateway to Jihad". _Daily Mail_. London.  
  525. **^** "New report further exposes Turkey links to ISIL militants". Tehran, Iran: Press TV. 21 October 2014. Archived from the original on 28 December 2014.  
  526. **^** "Qatar and ISIS Funding: The U.S. Approach". The Washington Institute. August 2014. Retrieved  8 May 2015. 
  527. **^** "Islamic State: Where does jihadist group get its support?". BBC. 1 September 2014. Retrieved  8 May 2015. 
  528. **^** "Qatar Is a U.S. Ally. They Also Knowingly Abet Terrorism. What's Going On?". _New Republic_. 6 October 2014. Retrieved  8 May 2015. 
  529. **^** "German minister accuses Qatar of funding Islamic State fighters". Reuters. 20 August 2014. Retrieved  8 May 2015. 
  530. **^** "Qatar allows money to flow to Islamic State, other terrorists: report". _The Washington Times_. 10 December 2014. Retrieved  8 May 2015. 
  531. **^** "Who funds ISIS? Qatar and state-sponsoring allegations". _Security Observer_. 23 December 2014. Retrieved  8 May 2015. 
  532. **^** "Qatar denies backing Islamic State group". Al Jazeera. 24 August 2014. Retrieved  8 May 2015. 
  533. **^** Shabad, Rebeca (22 June 2014). "Paul: ISIS emboldened after US armed its allies in Syria". The Hill. 
  534. **^** Masi, Alessandria (12 September 2014). "US-Backed Moderate Group in Syria Signs Truce With ISIS: Reports". _International Business Times_.  
  535. **^** "ISIS And Al Qaeda Truce – Business Insider". _Business Insider_. 13 November 2014.  
  536. **^** "Syrian Opposition Blasts Reports It Signed a Truce With ISIS". _The Daily Beast_.  
  537. **^** "Syrian opposition: No ISIS cease-fire". _TheHill_.  
  538. **^** Burke, Jason (26 May 2015). "Islamist fighters drawn from half the world's countries, says UN". _The Guardian_. Archived from the original on 26 May 2015. Retrieved  26 May 2015. 
  539. **^** "Commander of elite Tajik police force defects to Islamic State". Reuters. 28 May 2015.  
  540. **^** Mroue, Bassem (2 July 2014). "Chechen in Syria a rising star in extremist group". Associated Press. Archived from the original on 14 July 2014. 
  541. **^** "ISIS in America – Center for Cyber & Homeland Security – The George Washington University". _gwu.edu_.  
  542. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ Aamna Mohdin (6 October 2016). "ISIL's foreign fighters are surprisingly well-educated, according to the World Bank". _Quartz_. Retrieved  18 October 2016. 
  543. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Economic and Social Inclusion to Prevent Violent Extremism" (PDF). _World Bank_. October 2016. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2016-10-07. Retrieved 18 October 2016. 
  544. **^** Mohammed, Riyadh (16 November 2014). "ISIS Beheads Another American As 60 New Terror Groups Join". _The Fiscal Times_. Retrieved  28 November 2014. 
  545. **^** "ISIS accepts Boko Haram pledge, says would-be recruits can go to Nigeria". CBC News. Associated Press. 13 March 2015.  
  546. **^** Arfaoui, Jamel (8 July 2014). "Tunisia: Ansar Al-Sharia Tunisia Spokesman Backs Isis". Tunis, Tunisia: AllAfrica. Retrieved 25 September 2014. 
  547. **^** Abdallah Suleiman Ali (3 July 2014). "Global jihadists recognize Islamic State". Al-Monitor. Retrieved 25 September 2014. 
  548. **^** Chikhi, Lamine (14 September 2014). "Splinter group breaks from al Qaeda in North Africa". Reuters. Retrieved 24 September 2014. 
  549. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Witular, Rendi A. (13 August 2014). "Sons, top aides abandon Ba'asyir over ISIL, form new jihadist group". _The Jakarta Post_.  
  550. **^** Rottenberg, Chris (2012). "Jamaah Ansharut Tauhid, The Perpetual threat" (PDF). _Osgood Center for International Studies_.  
  551. **^** "Uzbek militants declare support for Islamic State". _Dawn_. Agence France-Presse. 7 October 2014. Retrieved  25 May 2015. 'Hereby, on behalf of all members of our movement, in line with our sacred duties, I declare that we are in the same ranks with the Islamic State in this continued war between Islam and [non-Muslims],' Usman Gazi wrote in an online statement on Sept 26. 
  552. **^** "IMU Declares It Is Now Part Of The Islamic State". Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. 6 August 2015. Retrieved  6 August 2015. 
  553. **^** Fuller, Liz (2 January 2015). "Six North Caucasus Insurgency Commanders Transfer Allegiance To Islamic State". Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty. Retrieved 17 February 2015. 
  554. **^** "What Caused the Demise of the Caucasus Emirate?". Jamestown Foundation. 18 June 2015.  
  555. **^** Dean, Sarah (21 August 2014). "PM Tony Abbott warns Australians of threats from Indonesian Jemaah Islamiyah group". _Daily Mail_. London. Retrieved  23 August 2014. 
  556. **^** Emasquel II, Paterno (17 September 2014). "Philippines condemns, vows to 'thwart' ISIS". Rappler. Retrieved 19 September 2014. 
  557. **^** "BIFF, Abu Sayyaf pledge allegiance to Islamic State jihadists". _GMA News Online_. Quezon City, Philippines: GMA Network. Agence France-Presse. 16 August 2014. Retrieved  22 August 2014. 
  558. **^** "Coalition commanders seek plan to counter Daesh advance". _Gulf News_. Agence France-Presse. 14 October 2014.  
  559. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Joint Statement Issued by Partners at the Counter-ISIL Coalition Ministerial Meeting". State.gov. 3 December 2014. Retrieved  14 December 2014. 
  560. **^** Dehghanpisheh, Babak (3 August 2014). "Iran's elite Guards fighting in Iraq to push back Islamic State". Reuters. 
  561. **^** Smith, Alexander (26 September 2014). "Russia Tells Iraq It's 'Ready' to Support Fight Against ISIS". NBC News. Retrieved 27 September 2014. 
  562. **^** Nordland, Rod (29 June 2014). "Russian Jets and Experts Sent to Iraq to Aid Army". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  28 September 2014. 
  563. **^** "Target ISIS: First batch of Russian fighter jets arrives in Iraq". RT. 30 June 2014. Retrieved  8 June 2015. 
  564. **^** "Russia 'kills 8 ISIS militants' in Caucasus raid". _The Daily Star_. Beirut, Lebanon. Agence France-Presse.  
  565. **^** Wood, L. Todd (30 June 2015). "Russia declares counter-terror ops regime in North Caucasus". _The Washington Times_.  
  566. **^** Harress, Christopher (24 October 2015). "Russian Islamic State Airstrikes In Iraq: ISIS OK For Russia To Target, Baghdad Says". _International Business Times_. Retrieved  1 November 2015. 
  567. **^** "8 ISIS targets hit during 20 combat flights in Syria – Russian military". RT. 30 September 2015. Retrieved  1 October 2015. 
  568. **^** Payne, Ed; Starr, Barbara; Cullinane, Susannah (30 September 2015). "Russia launches first airstrikes in Syria". CNN. Retrieved 30 September 2015. 
  569. **^** Lomsadze, Giorgi (24 September 2014). "Azerbaijan Arrests Alleged ISIS and Other Islamic Fighters". EurasiaNet.org. Retrieved 18 February 2015. 
  570. **^** "Azerbaijani media: Embassy increases security in Baku because of ISIS threatening". _Panorama_. 26 January 2015. Retrieved  18 January 2015. 
  571. **^** Mohan, C. Raja (5 March 2015). "Nawaz Sharif in Saudi Arabia: Pakistan's Leverage in the Gulf". _The Indian Express_. Retrieved  7 March 2015. 
  572. **^** Schram, Jamie (31 October 2014). "Now Pakistan cares about ISIS". _New York Post_. Retrieved  7 March 2015. 
  573. **^** "Security forces arrest local Islamic State commander in Lahore: sources". _The Express Tribune_. Lahore, Pakistan. Reuters. 21 January 2015. Retrieved  7 March 2015. 
  574. **^** "ISIL, Nusra Clash Fiercely on Qalmoun Barrens: 25 Killed, Injured". _Al-Manar News_. 17 December 2014. Retrieved  18 December 2014. 
  575. **^** Joscelyn, Thomas (9 July 2015). "Al Qaeda in the Islamic Maghreb backs jihadists fighting Islamic State in Derna, Libya". _Long War Journal_. Retrieved  9 July 2015. 
  576. **^** "Suspected Leader of Pro-IS Al-Shabab Faction Reported Killed". _Voice of America News_. 22 November 2015. Retrieved  23 November 2015. 
  577. **^** "ISIS reportedly moves into Afghanistan, is even fighting Taliban". 12 January 2015. Archived from the original on 13 February 2015. Retrieved  27 March 2015. 
  578. **^** "ISIL and the Taliban". Al Jazeera. 1 November 2015. Retrieved  13 December 2015. 
  579. **^** "ISIL warns Hamas in video message". Al Jazeera. 1 July 2015. Retrieved  1 July 2015. 
  580. **^** Mohammed, A. Salih (1 September 2014). "PKK forces impress in fight against Islamic State". Al-Monitor. Retrieved 15 October 2014. 
  581. **^** Mortada, Radwan (19 May 2014). "Hezbollah fighters and the "jihadis": Mad, drugged, homicidal, and hungry". _Al Akhbar_. Retrieved  9 June 2014. 
  582. **^** "Islamic State leader urges attacks in Saudi Arabia: speech". Reuters. 13 November 2014.  
  583. **^** Roggio, Bill (11 June 2013). "Suicide bombers kill 14 in Damascus". _Long War Journal_. Retrieved  3 June 2015. 
  584. **^** Spencer, Richard (19 May 2013). "Syria: Jabhat al-Nusra split after leader's pledge of support for al-Qaeda". _The Telegraph_. London.  
  585. **^** Banco, Erin (11 April 2015). "Jabhat Al-Nusra And ISIS Alliance Could Spread Beyond Damascus". _International Business Times_.  
  586. **^** Lilli, Eugenio (14 November 2014). "How would a deal between al-Qaeda and Isil change Syria's civil war?". _The Telegraph_. London.  
  587. **^** Prothero, Mitchell (4 March 2014). "ISIS joins other rebels to thwart Syria regime push near Lebanon". _The Sacramento Bee_.  
  588. **^** Ghosh, Bobby (12 January 2015). "ISIL and Al Qaeda: Terror's frenemies". _Quartz_.  
  589. **^** Meek, James Gordon. "Al Qaeda Leader Al-Zawahiri Declares War on ISIS 'Caliph' Al-Baghdadi". ABC News. Retrieved 11 September 2015 – via Yahoo! News. 
  590. **^** Fahmy, Omar (9 September 2015). "Al Qaeda calls Islamic State illegitimate but suggests cooperation". Reuters. Retrieved 11 September 2015. 
  591. **^** "UN 'may include' Isis on Syrian war crimes list". BBC News. 26 July 2014.  
  592. **^** "Video shows Islamic State executes scores of Syrian soldiers". Reuters. 28 August 2014.
  593. **^** "ISIS accused of crimes against humanity". Dubai, United Arab Emirates: Al Arabiya. 14 November 2014.  
  594. **^** Larson, Nina (14 November 2014). "UN probe: ISIS committing 'crimes against humanity' in Syria". _The Daily Star_. Beirut, Lebanon.  
  595. **^** "Libya: Extremists Terrorizing Derna Residents". Human Rights Watch. Retrieved  28 November 2014. 
  596. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Bulos, Nabih (20 June 2014). "Islamic State of Iraq and Syria aims to recruit Westerners with video". _Los Angeles Times_. Retrieved  17 August 2014. 
  597. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Zarocostas, John (8 July 2014). "U.N.: Islamic State executed imam of mosque where Baghdadi preached". _McClatchyDC_. Retrieved  10 October 2014. 
  598. **^** Abi-Habib, Maria (26 June 2014). "Iraq's Christian Minority Feels Militant Threat". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  6 July 2014 – via Google. (Subscription required (help)). 
  599. **^** "Syria: Executions, Hostage Taking by Rebels". Human Rights Watch. 10 October 2013.  
  600. **^** "Iraq crisis: Islamic State accused of ethnic cleansing". BBC News. 2 September 2014. Retrieved  25 September 2014. 
  601. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Report on the Protection of Civilians in Armed Conflict in Iraq: 6 July – 10 September 2014 (PDF) (Report). ohchr.org. 
  602. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "UN: ISIS Massacred 700 Turkmen – Including Women, Children, Elderly". CNS News. Retrieved  20 October 2014. 
  603. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "UN confirms 5,000 Yazidis men were executed and 7,000 women are now sex slaves". _Daily Mail_. London. 14 October 2014. Retrieved  20 October 2014. 
  604. **^** Lucas, Ryan (4 November 2014). "ISIS Tortured Kurdish Children Captured in Kobani: Group". _The Huffington Post_. Associated Press. Archived from the original on 5 November 2014. Retrieved  4 November 2014. 
  605. **^** "Islamic State group 'executes 700' in Syria". Al Jazeera. 17 August 2014. Retrieved  20 October 2014. 
  606. **^** Sly, Liz (20 October 2014). "Syria tribal revolt against Islamic State ignored, fueling resentment". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  7 November 2014. 
  607. **^** van Tets, Fernande (7 August 2014). "Isis takes Iraq's largest Christian town as residents told – 'leave, convert or die'". _The Independent_. Retrieved  5 January 2015. 
  608. **^** Jadallah, Ahmed (18 July 2014). "Convert, pay tax, or die, Islamic State warns Christians". Reuters. Retrieved 5 January 2015. 
  609. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Erb, Kelly Phillips (19 July 2014). "Islamic State Warns Christians: Convert, Pay Tax, Leave Or Die". _Forbes_. Retrieved  4 July 2016. 
  610. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Convert, pay tax, or die, Islamic State warns Christians". Reuters. 18 July 2014.  It said that Islamic State leader Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi, which the group has now named Caliph Ibrahim, had set a Saturday deadline for Christians who did not want to stay and live under those terms to "leave the borders of the Islamic Caliphate". "After this date, there is nothing between us and them but the sword," it said. 
  611. **^** Abedine, Saad; Mullen, Jethro (28 February 2014). "Islamists in Syrian city offer Christians safety – at a heavy price". CNN. Retrieved 27 July 2014. 
  612. **^** Hubbard, Ben (23 July 2014). "Life in a Jihadist Capital: Order With a Darker Side". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  27 July 2014. 
  613. **^** Robinson, Julian (31 March 2016). "Is ISIS planning to kill all remaining Christians in Raqqa? Terror group's decision to ban all members of the faith from leaving the city prompt fears for their safety". DailyMail. Retrieved 4 July 2016. 
  614. **^** Al-Khalidi, Suleiman (23 February 2015). "Islamic State in Syria abducts at least 150 Christians". Reuters. 
  615. **^** "Islamic State 'abducts dozens of Christians in Syria '". BBC. 23 February 2015. Retrieved 23 February 2015. 
  616. **^** Neurink, Judit (29 December 2014). "Kurdish official: ISIS Capture of Shingal 'was part of Arabization campaign'". _Rudaw_.  
  617. **^** "ISIL Militants Killed More Than 1000 Civilians in Recent Onslaught in recent Onslaught in Iraq: UN". RT News. Retrieved  4 July 2014. 
  618. **^** "Iraq violence: UN confirms more than 2000 killed, injured since early June". UN News Centre. 24 June 2014. Retrieved  4 July 2014. 
  619. **^** "UN warns of war crimes as ISIL allegedly executes 1,700". _Today's Zaman_. 15 June 2014. Archived from the original on 4 July 2014. Retrieved  4 July 2014. 
  620. **^** Spencer, Richard (16 June 2014). "Iraq crisis: UN condemns 'war crimes' as another town falls to Isis". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  6 July 2014. 
  621. **^** "Syria: ISIS Summarily Killed Civilians". Human Rights Watch. 14 June 2014. Retrieved  5 July 2014. 
  622. **^** "Syria conflict: Amnesty says ISIS killed seven children in north". BBC News. 6 June 2014. Retrieved  5 July 2014. 
  623. **^** "NGO: ISIS kills 102-year-old man, family in Syria". Al Arabiya English. Agence France-Presse. 1 June 2014.  
  624. **^** Holmes, Oliver (28 December 2014). "Islamic State executed nearly 2,000 people in six months: monitor". Reuters. 
  625. **^** Bacchi, Umberto. "ISIS Medieval School Curriculum: No Music, Art and Literature for Mosul Kids". _International Business Times_.  
  626. **^** Spencer, Richard (16 September 2014). "Islamic State issues new school curriculum in Iraq". _The Telegraph_. London.  
  627. **^** "ISIS eradicates art, history and music from curriculum in Iraq". CBS News. 15 September 2014.  
  628. **^** Sabah, Zaid; Al-Ansary, Khalid (17 September 2014). "Mosul Schools Go Back in Time With Islamic State Curriculum". _Bloomberg News_.  
  629. **^** Philp, Catherine (17 September 2014). "Parents boycott militants' curriculum". _The Times_. London.  
  630. **^** "Islamic State says women in Mosul must wear full veil or be punished". _The Irish Times_. 26 July 2014. Retrieved  23 August 2014. 
  631. **^** McElroy, Damien (23 July 2014). "Islamic State tells Mosul shopkeepers to cover up naked mannequins". _The Telegraph_. London.  
  632. **^** "ISIS Is Actively Recruiting Female Fighters To Brutalize Other Women". _Business Insider_.  
  633. **^** Zelin, Aaron Y. (13 June 2014). "The Islamic State of Iraq and Syria Has a Consumer Protection Office". _The Atlantic_. Retrieved  17 June 2014. 
  634. **^** Taylor, Adam (12 June 2014). "The rules in ISIS' new state: Amputations for stealing and women to stay indoors". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  2 August 2014. 
  635. **^** "ISIS bans music, imposes veil in Raqqa". _Al-Monitor_. 20 January 2014. Retrieved  13 September 2014. 
  636. **^** "Isis executes more than 4,000 people in less than two years". _The Independent_. 30 April 2016. Retrieved  11 November 2016. 
  637. **^** "IS beheads two civilian women in Syria: monitor Archived 4 July 2015 at the Wayback Machine.". Yahoo News. 30 June 2015.
  638. **^** Saul, Heather (22 January 2015). "Isis publishes penal code listing amputation, crucifixion and stoning as punishments – and vows to vigilantly enforce it". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  3 February 2015. 
  639. **^** Withnall, Adam (18 January 2015). "Isis throws 'gay' men off tower, stones woman accused of adultery and crucifies 17 young men in 'retaliatory' wave of executions". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  3 February 2015. 
  640. **^** Rush, James (3 February 2015). "Images emerge of 'gay' man 'thrown from building by Isis militants before he is stoned to death after surviving fall'". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  3 February 2015. 
  641. **^** Daragahi, Borzou (25 February 2015). "Isis brutality in Iraq reawakens Sunni resistance". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  25 February 2014. 
  642. **^** "Islamic State digging in in Raqqa, hiding in civilian shadows, amassing human shields". The Japan Times. 18 November 2015.  
  643. **^** "Islamic State jihadists using human shields to avoid air strikes". _The Daily Telegraph_. 20 November 2015.  
  644. **^** "ISIS using children human shields in Iraq and Syria as US and others increase airstrikes". CBS News. 4 December 2015.  
  645. **^** "ISIS extremists use Syrian civilians as human shields against Russian strikes". ARA News. 24 January 2016.
  646. **^** "At Any Cost: The Civilian Catastrophe in West Mosul". London: Amnesty International. 11 July 2017. Retrieved  21 July 2017. 
  647. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Kuntz, Katrine (29 July 2016). "Islamic State's Child Soldiers: First Come the Sweets, Then the Beheadings". _SPIEGEL ONLINE_. Der Spiegel. Retrieved  1 August 2016. 
  648. **^** Brannan, Kate. "Children of the Caliphate". _foreignpolicy.com/_. Foreign Policy Magazine. Retrieved  30 November 2014. 
  649. **^** "IS increases use of child soldiers, says US report". BBC News.  
  650. **^** Chris Tomson (14 March 2017). "In pictures: ISIS launches fresh attacks against the Syrian Army in Deir Ezzor". _Al Masdar News_. Retrieved  14 March 2017. 
  651. **^** Peritz, Aki; Maller, Tara (16 September 2014). "The Islamic State of Sexual Violence". foreignpolicy.com. Retrieved 14 August 2015. 
  652. **^** Saul, Heather (18 February 2015). "Isis Raqqa wives subjected to 'brutal' sexual assaults after marrying militants". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  14 August 2015. 
  653. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ Callimachi, Rukmini (13 August 2015). "ISIS Enshrines a Theology of Rape". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  14 August 2015. 
  654. **^** Wood, Paul (22 December 2014). "Islamic State: Yazidi women tell of sex-slavery trauma". BBC News. Retrieved 4 January 2015. 
  655. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Nebehay, Stephanie (2 October 2014). "Islamic State committing 'staggering' crimes in Iraq: U.N. report". Reuters. Retrieved 2 October 2014. 
  656. **^** Lagerwall, Katarina (23 September 2014). "Det jag har bevittnat i al-Raqqa kommer alltid förfölja mig" [What I have witnessed in al-Raqqa will always haunt me]. _Dagens Nyheter_ (in Swedish). Stockholm, Sweden. Retrieved  25 September 2014. 
  657. **^** Brekke, Kira (8 September 2014). "ISIS Is Attacking Women, And Nobody Is Talking About It". _The Huffington Post_. Retrieved  11 September 2014. 
  658. **^** "Surging Violence Against Women in Iraq". _Inter Press Service_. 27 June 2014. Retrieved  5 July 2014. 
  659. **^** Winterton, Clare (25 June 2014). "Why We Must Act When Women in Iraq Document Rape". _The Huffington Post_. Retrieved  10 July 2014. 
  660. **^** Giglio, Mike (27 June 2014). "Fear of Sexual Violence Simmers in Iraq As ISIL Advances". _BuzzFeed_. Retrieved  9 July 2014. 
  661. **^** Williams, Martin (25 September 2013). "Sexual jihad is a bit much". _The Citizen_. Gauteng, South Africa. Retrieved  7 July 2014. 
  662. **^** Watson, Ivan (30 October 2014). "'Treated like cattle': Yazidi women sold, raped, enslaved by ISIS". CNN. Retrieved 14 August 2015. 
  663. **^** Yoon, Sangwoon (4 August 2015). "Islamic State Circulates Sex Slave Price List". _Bloomberg Business_. Archived from the original on 7 August 2015.  
  664. **^** Todenhöfer, Jürgen (2015). _Inside IS- 10 Tage im <Islamischen Staat>_ [ _Inside IS: 10 days in 'Islamic State'_ ] (in German). Munich, Germany: C. Bertelsmann Verlag. ISBN 978-3-570-10276-3. 
  665. **^** Spencer, Richard (14 October 2014). "Isil carried out massacres and mass sexual enslavement of Yazidis, UN confirms". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  3 November 2014. 
  666. **^** Semple, Kirk (14 November 2014). "Yazidi Girls Seized by ISIS Speak Out After Escape". _The New York Times_.  
  667. **^** "ISIS Just Executed More Than 150 Women in Fallujah". Business Insider. NOW News. 17 December 2014.  
  668. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Siddiqui, Mona (24 August 2014). "Isis: a contrived ideology justifying barbarism and sexual control". _The Observer_. Retrieved  1 January 2015. 
  669. **^** Callimachi, Rukmini (10 February 2015). "Death of Kayla Mueller, ISIS Hostage, Confirmed by Family and White House". _The New York Times_.  
  670. **^** "U.S. believes hostage was given to ISIS fighter as bride". CBS News. 11 February 2015. Retrieved  17 August 2015. 
  671. **^** Meek, James Gordon; Schwartz, Rhonda (10 February 2015). "Officials: Kayla Mueller May Have Been Given to ISIS Commander". ABC News. 
  672. **^** Wagner, Meg; Siemaszko, Corky (10 February 2015). "Kayla Jean Mueller, American aid worker held hostage, may have been forced to marry ISIS leader: report". _Daily News_. New York.  
  673. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dilanian, Ken (14 August 2015). "Islamic State Leader Raped American Hostage, US Finds". _Yahoo! News_. Associated Press. Archived from the original on 14 August 2015.  
  674. **^** "Islamic State leader Baghdadi 'raped' Kayla Mueller". BBC News. 14 August 2015.  
  675. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Goldman, Adam; Miller, Greg (14 August 2015). "Leader of Islamic State took American hostage as sexual slave". _The Washington Post_.  
  676. **^** Meek, James Gordon (14 August 2015). "ISIS Leader Abu Bakr Al-Baghdadi Sexually Abused American Hostage Kayla Mueller, Officials Say". Washington DC: ABC News. Retrieved 14 August 2015. The information about al-Baghdadi's extraordinary direct role in the captivity and physical abuse of Kayla Mueller was drawn from, among many sources, the U.S. debriefings of at least least two Yezedi teenage girls, ages 16 and 18, held as sex slaves in the Sayyaf compound as well as from the interrogation of Abu Sayyaf's wife Umm Sayyaf, who was captured in the U.S. raid, the officials told ABC News. 
  677. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Abdelaziz, Salma (13 October 2014). "ISIS states its justification for the enslavement of women". CNN. Retrieved 1 January 2015. 
  678. **^** Spencer, Richard (13 October 2014). "Thousands of Yazidi women sold as sex slaves 'for theological reasons', says Isil". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  3 November 2014. 
  679. **^** "Slavery in Islam: To have and to hold". _The Economist_. 18 October 2014.  
  680. **^** Malas, Nour (18 November 2014). "Ancient Prophecies Motivate Islamic State Militants: Battlefield Strategies Driven by 1,400-year-old Apocalyptic Ideas". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  22 November 2014. 
  681. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sypher, Ford (28 August 2014). "Rape and Sexual Slavery Inside an ISIS Prison". _The Daily Beast_. Horror. Retrieved  5 January 2015. 
  682. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Kumar, Anugrah (13 October 2014). "ISIS Claims Islam Justifies Making 'Infidel' Women Sex Slaves". _The Christian Post_. Retrieved  1 January 2015. 
  683. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "ISIL seeks to justify enslaving Yazidi women and girls in Iraq". _Today's Zaman_. abril. 14 October 2014. Archived from the original on 15 November 2014. Retrieved  2 January 2014. 
  684. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Smith, Amelia (12 September 2014). "ISIS Publish Pamphlet On How to Treat Female Slaves". _Newsweek_.  
  685. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Taher, Abul (13 December 2014). "Our faith condones raping underage slaves: ISIS publishes shocking guidebook telling fighters how to buy, sell and abuse captured women". _Daily Mail_. London.  
  686. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Withnall, Adam (10 December 2014). "Isis releases 'abhorrent' sex slaves pamphlet with 27 tips for militants on taking, punishing and raping female captives". _The Independent_.  
  687. **^** Lodge, Carey (15 December 2014). "Islamic State issues abhorrent sex slavery guidelines about how to treat women". _Christianity Today_.  
  688. **^** Botelho, Greg (13 December 2014). "ISIS: Enslaving, having sex with 'unbelieving' women, girls is OK". CNN. 
  689. **^** Saul, Heather (10 April 2015). "Yazidi sex slaves 'gang-raped in public' by Isis fighters, harrowing accounts reveal". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  11 April 2015. 
  690. **^** Saul, Heather (21 February 2015). "Isis infighting: Tensions rise over use of Yazidi sex slaves, loss of Kobani and poor services in areas controlled by group". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  11 April 2015. 
  691. **^** Hinnant, Lori; Alleruzzo, Maya; Szlanko, Balint (5 July 2016). "Islamic State tightens grip on captives held as sex slaves". _The Big Story_. Associate Press.  
  692. **^** Gardner, Ffrank (3 August 2016). "Iraq's Sinjar Yazidis: Bringing IS slavers to justice". _BBC News_. Retrieved  3 August 2016. 
  693. **^** "About CPJ". Committee to Protect Journalists.  
  694. **^** Al Fares, Zaid (5 September 2014). "The Forgotten Isis Beheadings: The World Mourns Steven Sotloff, but who Remembers Bassam al-Rayes?". _International Business Times UK_. Retrieved  17 December 2014. 
  695. **^** Kestler-D'Amours, Jillian (6 October 2014). "Syria journalists 'on the margins of history'". Al Jazeera. Retrieved 17 December 2014. 
  696. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Areas controlled by Islamic State are news 'black holes '". _Reporters Without Borders_. 23 October 2014.  
  697. **^** "ISIL 'publicly executes Iraqi journalist '". Al Jazeera. 11 October 2014. 
  698. **^** Callimachi, Rukmini (25 October 2014). "ISIS Hostages Endured Torture and Dashed Hopes, Freed Cellmates Say". _The New York Times_.  
  699. **^** Yourish, Karen (25 October 2014). "The Fates of 23 ISIS Hostages in Syria". _The New York Times_.  
  700. **^** Johnston, Chris (9 December 2014). "Islamic State suspected of cyber-attack on Raqqa opponents". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  28 December 2014. 
  701. **^** "Libya's ISIS branch claims execution of two Tunisian journalists". _Al Akhbar English_. 9 January 2015.  
  702. **^** McCurry, Justin (31 January 2015). "Isis video purports to show beheading of Japanese hostage Kenji Goto". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  1 July 2015. 
  703. **^** Eliott C. McLaughlin (20 April 2015). "ISIS executes more Christians in Libya, video shows". CNN. 
  704. **^** "ISIL video shows Christian Egyptians beheaded in Libya". Al Jazeera. 16 February 2015.  
  705. **^** Solomon, Erika (19 December 2014). "Isis morale falls as momentum slows and casualties mount". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  20 December 2014. 
  706. **^** "Seeking Information: Help Identify Individuals Traveling Overseas for Combat". Federal Bureau of Investigation. 7 October 2014.  
  707. **^** "Syrian Soldiers Digging Their Own Graves Before Being Executed by ISIS". YouTube. Archived from the original on 28 January 2015.  
  708. **^** Ellis, Ralph (6 April 2015). "New mass graves found in Tikrit". CNN. 
  709. **^** "Two detained in Finland over ISIS executions in Tikrit". _Yle_. 10 December 2015.  
  710. **^** Westall, Sylvia; Karouny, Mariam (28 August 2014). "Video shows Islamic State executes scores of Syrian soldiers". Reuters. 
  711. **^** "ISIS purges Syria's Palmyra of Assad loyalists". _The Times of India_. Associated Press. 23 May 2015. Archived from the original on 25 May 2015.  
  712. **^** "Isis massacre: At least 300 killed, several held hostages in east Syria". _International Business Times_. 17 January 2016.  
  713. **^** "Isis kills hundreds of Iraqi Sunnis from Albu Nimr tribe in Anbar province". _The Guardian_. 30 October 2014.
  714. **^** "IS Massacres 70 More Tribesmen In Iraqi Revenge Attack". Radio Free Europe/Radio Liberty/Radio Liberty. 10 November 2014
  715. **^** Saul, Heather (17 December 2014). "Isis 'executes 150 women for refusing to marry militants' and buries them in mass graves". _The Independent_. London.  
  716. **^** "Kurdish forces fighting Isis report being attacked with chemical weapons". _The Guardian_. Agence France-Presse. 13 August 2015. Retrieved  14 August 2015. 
  717. **^** Deutsch, Anthony (15 February 2016). "Samples confirm Islamic State used mustard gas in Iraq – diplomat". Reuters. Retrieved 15 February 2016. 
  718. **^** "ISIS's Financial and Military Capabilities". _Crethiplethi_. Winter 2014. Retrieved  14 November 2015. 
  719. **^** "Iraq's heritage needs protection from Islamic State – UNESCO". Reuters. 2 November 2014.  
  720. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Arraf, Jane (8 November 2014). "Islamic State seeking to 'delete' entire cultures, UNESCO chief warns in Iraq". _The Christian Science Monitor_.  
  721. **^** Lamb, Franklin (8 May 2014). "SYRIA: "Raqqa is Being Slaughtered Silently"". _Intifada Palestine_. Retrieved  28 December 2014. transcript of an interview conducted by the author at the National Museum of Syria with an employee of the Directorate General of Antiquities and Museums (DGAM). The gentleman had been working in the governorate of Raqqa, in eastern Syria, when armed groups were looting museums and conducting illegal excavations of heritage sites. 
  722. **^** Block, Melissa (9 July 2014). "The Plight of Mosul's Museum: Iraqi Antiquities At Risk Of Ruin". NPR. 
  723. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dickey, Christopher (7 July 2014). "ISIS Is About to Destroy Biblical History in Iraq". _The Daily Beast_. Retrieved  1 December 2014. 
  724. **^** Al-Alawi, Irfan. "Extreme Wahhabism on Display in Shrine Destruction in Mosul". Gatestone Institute. Retrieved 4 October 2014. 
  725. **^** "Islamic State: Jihadists destroying and looting Iraqi heritage sites for artefacts, UNESCO warns". ABC News. Agence France-Presse.  
  726. **^** "Nimrud: Outcry as IS bulldozers attack ancient Iraq site". BBC News. 6 March 2015. Retrieved  6 March 2015. 
  727. **^** Varghese, Johnlee (24 February 2015). "Isis Burns Down Mosul Library, Destroys 8,000 Rare Books and Manuscripts". Ibtimes.co.in. Retrieved 21 May 2016. 

## Bibliography

  * Abass, Ademola (2014). _Complete International Law: Text, Cases and Materials_ (2nd ed.). Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
  * Al-Yaqoubi, Muhammad (2015). _Refuting ISIS: A Rebuttal Of Its Religious And Ideological Foundations_. Sacred Knowledge. ISBN 978-1-908224-12-5.  
  * Boffey, Daniel. "'Islamic State' is a slur on our faith, say leading Muslims". _The Guardian_.  
  * Gerhard Böwering, ed. (2013). _The Princeton Encyclopedia of Islamic Political Thought_. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-13484-0.  
  * Chulov, Martin (11 December 2014). "Isis: the inside story". _The Guardian_.  
  * Fishman, Brian (2008). "Using the Mistakes of al Qaeda's Franchises to Undermine Its Strategies". _Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science_. **618** : 46–54. doi:10.1177/0002716208316650. JSTOR 40375774. 
  * Fraile Ordonez, Siobhan (28 September 2015). "The Non-Islamic Non-State". _St Andrews Foreign Affairs Review_.  
  * Simon, Steven (2008). "The Price of the Surge: How U.S. Strategy Is Hastening Iraq's Demise". _Foreign Affairs_. Vol.  87 no. 3\. pp. 57–72, 74–76. JSTOR 20032651. 
  * Tausch, Arno (Spring 2015). "Estimates on the Global Threat of Islamic State Terrorism in the Face of the 2015 Paris and Copenhagen Attacks" (PDF). _Middle East Review of International Affairs_. Rubin Center, Research in International Affairs, Idc Herzliya, Israel. **19** (1). SSRN 2702356 .  
  * Wood, Graeme (March 2015). "What ISIS Really Wants". _The Atlantic_.  

## External links

Find more about **Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant** at Wikipedia's sister
projects

  * Definitions from Wiktionary
  * Media from Wikimedia Commons
  * News from Wikinews
  * Quotations from Wikiquote

  * The Islamic State. The Council on Foreign Relations
  * ISIS, Counter Extremism Project profile
  * Islamic State group: The full story. BBC News
  * _Frontline_ : _Losing Iraq_ (July 2014), _The Rise of ISIS_ (October 2014), _Obama at War_ (May 2015), _Escaping ISIS_ (July 2015), documentaries by PBS
  * _The Islamic State – Full Length_, documentary by Vice News (August 2014)
  * "ISIS: Portrait of a Jihadi Terrorist Organization" – Report by the Intelligence and Terrorism Information Center.
  * From Chechnya To Syria & Analysis of Russian-speaking Foreign Fighters in Syria
  * Operation Inherent Resolve updates
  * ISIL frontline maps (Iraq and Syria)
  * The Islamic State – Jihadology Research project by Aaron Zelin
  * Gabi Siboni, The Military Power of the Islamic State, a chapter inside " **The Lessons of Operation Protective Edge** ", eds. Yoram Schweitzer and Omer Einav, INSS, 2016.
  * Tal Koren and Gabi Siboni, Cyberspace in the Service of ISIS, INSS Insight No. 601, 4 September 2014.
  * "The Group That Calls Itself a State" – Publication by the Combating Terrorism Center of West Point, The United States Military Academy.
  * "Historic Islamic Edict (Fatwa) on Joining ISIS/ISIL" – from Islamic Supreme Council of Canada

  * v
  * t
  * e

Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant  
  
---  
  
  * Names of the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant

  
  
Leadership |

| Current |

  * Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi
  * Abu Ahmad al-Alwani
  * Abu Fatima al-Jaheishi
  * Abu Muhammad al-Shimali

  
  
---|---  
  **†** Former |

  * Haji Bakr
  * Abu Abdulrahman al-Bilawi
  * Abu Mohannad al-Sweidawi
  * Abdul Rauf Aliza
  * Abu Sayyaf
  * Ali Awni al-Harzi
  * Abu Umar al-Tunisi
  * Abu Khattab al-Tunisi
  * Abu Muslim al-Turkmani
  * Mohammed Emwazi
  * Abu Nabil al-Anbari
  * Abu Ali al-Anbari
  * Abu Waheeb
  * Abu Omar al-Shishani
  * Abu Mohammad al-Adnani
  * Abu Jandal al-Kuwaiti
  * Ahmad Abousamra
  * Turki al-Binali

  
  
History |

  * Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad (1999–2004)
  * Tanzim Qaidat al-Jihad fi Bilad al-Rafidayn (2004–06)
  * Mujahideen Shura Council (2006)
  * Islamic State of Iraq (2006–13)
  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (2013–14)
  * Islamic State (June 2014–present)

  
  
Timeline of events |

  * 2013
  * 2014
  * 2015
  * 2016
  * 2017

  
  
International  
branches |

  * Khorasan Province (Afghanistan and Pakistan)
  * Libyan Provinces (Libya)
  * Caucasus Province (North Caucasus)
  * Sinai Province (Sinai)
  * Algeria Province (Algeria)
  * Yemen Province (Yemen)
  * Abnaa ul-Calipha (Somalia)
  * Abu Sayyaf (Philippines)
  * Boko Haram (West Africa)

  
  
Wars |

  * War on Terror
  * Iraq War
    * Iraqi insurgency (2003–11)
    * Sectarian violence (2006–07)
    * Iraqi insurgency (2011–14)
    * Iraqi Civil War (2014–present)
  * Syrian Civil War
    * Spillover
    * Spillover in Lebanon
    * Inter-rebel conflict
  * Sinai insurgency
  * Libyan Civil War (2014–present)
  * War in North-West Pakistan
  * War in Afghanistan (2015–present)
  * Moro conflict (Philippines)
  * al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen
  * Yemeni Civil War (2015–present)
  * Boko Haram insurgency
  * Military intervention against ISIL
    * American-led intervention in Iraq
    * American-led intervention in the Syrian Civil War
    * Russian military intervention in the Syrian Civil War
    * Turkish military intervention in Syria

  
  
Battles |

| 2013 |

  * Akashat ambush
  * Hawija clashes
  * Raqqa campaign (2012–13)
  * Operation al-Shabah
  * Battle of Ras al-Ayn
  * Battle of Tell Abyad
  * Latakia offensive
  * Siege of Menagh Air Base
  * Battle of Sadad
  * Battle of Qalamoun
  * Aleppo offensive (October–December 2013)
  * Anbar campaign (2013–14)

  
  
---|---  
2014 |

  * Fall of Fallujah
  * Northern Aleppo offensive (February–July 2014)
  * Battle of Markada
  * Northern Iraq offensive (June 2014)
  * Fall of Mosul
  * Salahuddin campaign
  * First Battle of Tikrit
  * Northern Iraq offensive (August 2014)
  * Siege of Kobanî
  * Sinjar massacre
  * Derna campaign (2014–16)
  * Battle of Baiji
  * Battle of Ramadi (2014–15)
  * Deir ez-Zor offensive (December 2014)
  * Battle of Baiji (2014–15)
  * Sinjar offensive (December 2014)
  * Battle of Zumar
  * Siege of Amirli

  
  
2015 |

  * Fall of Nofaliya
  * West African offensive
  * February 2015 Egyptian airstrikes in Libya
  * Bosso and Diffa raid
  * Eastern al-Hasakah offensive
  * Second Battle of Tikrit
  * Battle of Sirte
  * Hama and Homs offensive (March–April 2015)
  * Battle of Sarrin (March–April 2015)
  * Battle of Yarmouk Camp
  * Anbar offensive (2015)
  * Qalamoun offensive (May–June 2015)
  * Palmyra offensive (May 2015)
  * Western al-Hasakah offensive
  * Al-Hasakah city offensive (May–June 2015)
  * Tell Abyad offensive (May–July 2015)
  * Battle of Sarrin (June–July 2015)
  * Battle of al-Hasakah
  * Kobanî massacre
  * Palmyra offensive (July–August 2015)
  * Battle of Ramadi (2015–16)
  * Battle of Al-Qaryatayn (August 2015)
  * Al-Hawl offensive
  * Homs offensive (November–December 2015)
  * Sinjar offensive (November 2015)
  * East Aleppo offensive (2015–16)
  * Nineveh Plains offensive
  * Tishrin Dam offensive

  
  
2016 |

  * Deir ez-Zor offensive (January 2016)
  * Siege of Fallujah (2016)
  * Nangarhar Offensive
  * Battle of Ben Guerdane
  * Ithriyah-Raqqa offensive (February–March 2016)
  * Al-Shaddadi offensive
  * 2016 Khanasir offensive
  * Battle of al-Qaryatayn (March–April 2016)
  * Palmyra offensive (March 2016)
  * Northern Aleppo offensive (March–June 2016)
  * Hīt offensive
  * Battle of Basilan
  * Battle of Sirte
  * Ar-Rutbah offensive
  * Northern Raqqa offensive (May 2016)
  * Battle of Fallujah
  * Manbij offensive
  * Ithriyah-Raqqa offensive (June 2016)
  * Abu Kamal offensive
  * Battle of al-Rai (August 2016)
  * Northern al-Bab offensive (September 2016)
  * Western al-Bab offensive (September 2016)
  * 2016 Dabiq offensive
  * Western al-Bab offensive (October–November 2016)
  * Battle of al-Bab
  * Aleppo offensive (November–December 2016)
  * Palmyra offensive (December 2016)

  
  
2017 |

  * Battle of Mosul (2016–2017)
  * Raqqa campaign (2016–2017)
  * Palmyra offensive (2017)
  * Deir ez-Zor offensive (January–February 2017)
  * East Aleppo offensive (January–April 2017)
  * Eastern Homs offensive (2017)
  * Hama offensive (2017)
  * Western Nineveh offensive (2017)
  * Battle of Tabqa (2017)
  * Syrian Desert campaign (December 2016–April 2017)
  * Syrian Desert campaign (May–July 2017)
  * Maskanah Plains offensive
  * Battle of Marawi
  * Battle of Raqqa (2017)
  * Southern Raqqa offensive (June 2017)
  * Central Syria campaign (2017)
  * Battle of Tal Afar (2017)
  * Hawija offensive (2017)
  * Eastern Syria campaign (September 2017–present)
  * 2017 Abu Kamal offensive
  * 2017 Western Iraq campaign

  
  
Attacks |

| 2014 |

  * Jewish Museum of Belgium shooting
  * Saint-Jean-sur-Richelieu ramming attack

  
  
---|---  
2015 |

  * Porte de Vincennes siege
  * Beheading of Copts in Libya
  * Corinthia Hotel attack
  * Al Qubbah bombings
  * Bardo National Museum attack
  * Sana'a mosque bombings
  * Jalalabad suicide bombing
  * Curtis Culwell Center attack
  * Qatif and Dammam mosque bombings
  * 26 June 2015 Islamist attacks
    * Kobanî massacre
    * Saint-Quentin-Fallavier attack
    * Kuwait mosque bombing
    * Sousse attacks
  * Khan Bani Saad bombing
  * Suruç bombing
  * Baghdad bombing (August)
  * Ankara bombings
  * Metrojet Flight 9268
  * Beirut bombings
  * Paris attacks (November)
  * Tunis bombing
  * Qamishli bombings

  
  
2016 |

  * Zliten truck bombing
  * Hurghada attack
  * Istanbul bombing (January)
  * Jakarta attacks
  * Ramadi bombing
  * Mahasin mosque attack
  * Sayyidah Zaynab attack (January)
  * Mosul massacre
  * Homs bombings (February)
  * Sayyidah Zaynab bombings (February)
  * Baghdad bombings (February)
  * Istanbul bombing (March)
  * Brussels bombings
  * Aden car bombing
  * Iskandariya suicide bombing
  * Baghdad bombing (April)
  * Samawa bombing
  * Gaziantep bombing (May)
  * Baghdad bombings (11 May)
  * Real Madrid fan club massacres
  * Baghdad gas plant attack
  * Yemen police bombings (15 May)
  * Baghdad bombings (17 May)
  * Jableh and Tartous bombings (May)
  * Yemen bombings (23 May)
  * Aktobe shootings
  * Magnanville stabbing
  * Mukalla attacks (June)
  * Movida Bar grenade attack
  * Atatürk Airport attack
  * Dhaka attack (July)
  * Karrada bombing
  * Muhammad ibn Ali al-Hadi Mausoleum attack
  * Würzburg train attack
  * Kabul bombing (July)
  * Ansbach bombing
  * Normandy church attack
  * Qamishli bombings (July)
  * Charleroi stabbing
  * Shchelkovo Highway police station attack
  * Aden bombing (August)
  * Syria bombings (September)
  * Baghdad bombings (September)
  * Baghdad bombings (October)
  * Quetta police training college attack
  * Hamam al-Alil massacre
  * Khuzdar bombing
  * Samarinda church bombing
  * Kabul suicide bombing (November)
  * Hillah suicide truck bombing (November)
  * Aden suicide bombings (December)
  * Botroseya church bombing
  * Al-Karak attack
  * Berlin attack
  * Baghdad bombings (December)

  
  
2017 |

  * Istanbul nightclub shooting
  * Baghdad bombings (January)
  * Azaz bombing (January)
  * Kabul Supreme Court attack (February)
  * Sehwan suicide bombing
  * Kabul attack (March)
  * London (Westminster) attack
  * Saint Petersburg Metro bombing
  * Egypt church bombings
  * Mastung suicide bombing
  * Manchester Arena bombing
  * Jakarta bombings
  * Minya attack
  * Al-Faqma bombing
  * London (Southwark) attack
  * Brighton siege
  * Tehran attacks
  * Pakistan bombings (June)
  * 2017 Hurghada attack
  * 2017 attack on the Iraqi embassy in Kabul
  * 2017 Herat mosque attack
  * August 2017 Quetta suicide bombing
  * 2017 Barcelona attacks
  * August 2017 Brussels attack
  * 2017 Nasiriyah attacks
  * 2017 Sinai mosque attack

  
  
Politics |

  * Finances
  * Ideology
  * Human rights
  * Genocide of Christians
  * Genocide of Shias
  * Genocide of Yazidis
  * Persecution of queer men
  * Killing of captives
  * Beheading incidents
  * Destruction of cultural heritage

  
  
Relations |

  * Iran and ISIL
  * Philippines and ISIL
  * United Kingdom and ISIL
  * Foreign fighters
  * Name changes due to ISIL
  * Portrayal of ISIL in American media
  * Connection with Saddam Regime and Baath Party

  
  
Society |

  * Members
    * Terrorist cell in Brussels
  * Territorial claims

  
  
Media of ISIL |

  * Ahlam al-Nasr
  * Al-Bayan
  * Amaq News Agency
  * Dabiq
  * Dar al-Islam
  * Istok
  * Konstantiniyye
  * Rumiyah

  
  
Related topics |

  * Worldwide caliphate
  * _Defeating ISIS_
  * Islamism
  * Millenarianism
  * Sexual violence in the Iraqi insurgency
  * Shia–Sunni relations
  * Slavery in 21st-century Islamism
  * Theocracy

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Military intervention against ISIL  
  
---  
Operations in Iraq |

  * Iranian-led intervention in Iraq (13 June 2014 – present)
  * American-led intervention in Iraq (15 June 2014 – present)
  * British intervention in Iraq (9 August 2014 – present)
  * Australian intervention in Iraq (31 August 2014 – present)
  * Canadian intervention in Iraq (4 September 2014 – present)
  * French intervention in Iraq (19 September 2014 – present) 
    * Turkey–ISIL conflict
  * German intervention in Iraq (4 December 2015 – present)

  
  
Operations in Libya |

  * Egyptian airstrikes in Libya (16 February 2015)

  
  
Operations in Syria |

  * Iranian-led intervention in Syria
  * American rescue mission (4 July 2014)
  * American-led intervention in Syria (22 September 2014 – present)
  * Jordanian intervention in Syria (22 September 2014 – present)
  * Turkish intervention in Syria (24 August 2016 – 29 March 2017)
  * Russian intervention in Syria (30 September 2015 – present)
  * French intervention in Syria (November 2015 – present)
  * British intervention in Syria (2 December 2015 - present)
  * German intervention in Syria (4 December 2015 – present)
  * Dutch involvement in the Syrian Civil War (29 January 2014 – present)

  
  
Operations in Afghanistan |

  * American-led intervention in Afghanistan (2015–present)
  * 2017 Nangarhar airstrike

  
  
Battles |

  * Northern Iraq offensive (June 2014)
    * First Battle of Tikrit
  * Northern Iraq offensive (August 2014)
    * Battle for Mosul Dam
    * Battle of Zumar
    * Sinjar massacre
    * Siege of Amirli
  * Siege of Kobanî
  * Battle of Suq al Ghazi
  * Salahuddin campaign (2014–16)
  * Battle of Baiji (October–November 2014)
  * Battle of Ramadi (2014–15)
  * Battle of Baiji (2014–15)
  * December 2014 Sinjar offensive
  * Derna campaign (2014–16)
  * Eastern al-Hasakah offensive
  * Second Battle of Tikrit
  * Battle of Sarrin (March–April 2015)
  * Anbar offensive (2015)
  * Palmyra offensive (May 2015)
  * Western al-Hasakah offensive
  * Al-Hasakah city offensive (May–June 2015)
  * Tell Abyad offensive
  * Battle of Sarrin (June–July 2015)
  * Battle of al-Hasakah (June–August 2015)
  * Kobanî massacre
  * Battle of Ramadi (2015–16)
  * 2015 Al-Hawl offensive
  * November 2015 Sinjar offensive
  * Nineveh Plains offensive
  * Tishrin Dam offensive
  * Siege of Fallujah (2016)
  * Al-Shaddadi offensive (2016)
  * Northern Aleppo offensive (March–June 2016)
  * Hīt offensive (2016)
  * Mosul offensive (2016)
  * Sirte offensive (2016)
  * Ar-Rutbah offensive (2016)
  * Northern Raqqa offensive (May 2016)
  * Battle of Fallujah (2016)
  * Manbij offensive (2016)
  * 2016 Abu Kamal offensive
  * Jarabulus offensive (2016)
  * Battle of Mosul (2016–17)
  * Raqqa campaign (2016–present)
    * Battle of Tabqa (2017)
    * Battle of Raqqa (2017)
  * Syrian Desert campaign (December 2016–April 2017)
  * Battle of Tal Afar (2017)
  * Hawija offensive (2017)
  * 2017 Western Iraq campaign

  
  
Related |

  * _Defeating ISIS_
  * Aerial order of battle
  * Iran and ISIL
  * Operation Inherent Resolve
  * Timeline of the American-led intervention in Syria
  * American military intervention in Cameroon
  * Response of Saudi Arabia to ISIL

  
  
  * Iraqi Civil War (2014–present)
  * Syrian Civil War

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Islamism  
  
---  
  
| Outline |

  * Islamism
  * Qutbism
  * Salafism
    * Salafi jihadism
  * Shia Islamism

  
  
---|---  
Concepts |

  * Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists
  * Islamic democracy
  * Islamic socialism
  * Islamic state
    * Islamic monarchy
    * Islamic republic
  * Islamistan
  * Islamization
    * of knowledge
  * Pan-Islamism
  * Post-Islamism
  * Sharia
  * _Shura_
  * Turkish model
  * Two-nation theory
  * Ummah

  
  
Movements |

| Socio-  
political |

  * Deobandi
  * Hizb ut-Tahrir
    * in Britain
    * in Central Asia
  * Islamic Defenders Front
  * Jamaat-e-Islami
  * Millî Görüş
  * Muslim Brotherhood
    * in Egypt
    * in Syria

  
  
---|---  
Political  
Party |

  * Freedom and Justice Party
  * Green Algeria Alliance
  * Hadas
  * Hezbollah
  * Islamic Salvation Front
  * Jamaat-e-Islami Pakistan
  * Jamiat-e Islami
  * Justice and Construction Party
  * Justice and Development Party (Morocco)
  * National Congress
  * National Iraqi Alliance
  * Malaysian Islamic Party
  * Prosperous Justice Party
  * Al Wefaq
  * Welfare Party

  
  
Related |

  * Ennahda Movement
  * Gülen movement
  * Islamic Modernism
  * Justice and Development Party (Turkey)

  
  
Theorists and  
political leaders

|

  * Muhammad Abduh
  * Jamāl al-Dīn al-Afghānī
  * Qazi Hussain Ahmad
  * Muhammad Asad
  * Hasan al-Banna
  * Necmettin Erbakan
  * Muammar Gaddafi
  * Rached Ghannouchi
  * Safwat Hegazi
  * Muhammad Iqbal
  * Alija Izetbegović
  * Ali Khamenei
  * Ruhollah Khomeini
  * Abul Ala Maududi
  * Taqi al-Din al-Nabhani
  * Yusuf al-Qaradawi
  * Sayyid Qutb
  * Tariq Ramadan
  * Ata Abu Rashta
  * Rashid Rida
  * Navvab Safavi
  * Ali Shariati
  * Haji Shariatullah
  * Hassan al-Turabi
  * Ahmad Yassin
  * Zia-ul-Haq

  
  
|

Salafi movement  
  
---  
  
| Movements |

| Scholastic |

  * Ahl-i Hadith
  * Madkhalism
  * Sahwa movement
  * Wahhabism

  
  
---|---  
Political |

  * Al Asalah
  * Authenticity Party
  * Al-Islah
  * Al-Nour Party
    * Islamist Bloc
  * People Party
  * Young Kashgar Party

  
  
Major figures |

  * Muhammad ibn Abd al-Wahhab
  * Nasiruddin Albani
  * Abd al-Aziz ibn Baz
  * Muqbil bin Hadi al-Wadi'i
  * Safar al-Hawali
  * Rabee al-Madkhali
  * Muhammad Al-Munajjid
  * Zakir Naik
  * Salman al-Ouda
  * Ali al-Tamimi
  * Ibn al Uthaymeen

  
  
Related |

  * International propagation of Salafism and Wahhabism
  * Islamic religious police
  * Petro-Islam
  * Sufi-Salafi relations

  
  
|

Militant Islamism/Jihadism  
  
---  
  
| Ideology |

  * Qutbism
  * Salafi jihadism

  
  
---|---  
Movements |

  * Islamic Emirate of Afghanistan
  * Militant Islamism based in 
    * MENA region
      * Egyptian Islamic Jihad
      * Fatah al-Islam
      * Hamas
      * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
    * South Asia
      * Lashkar-e-Taiba
      * Taliban
    * Southeast Asia
      * Abu Sayyaf
    * Sub-Saharan Africa
      * Boko Haram
      * al-Shabaab
  * al-Qaeda
    * in the Arabian Peninsula
    * in Iraq
    * in North Africa

  
  
Major figures |

  * Anwar al-Awlaki
  * Abdullah Yusuf Azzam
  * Abu Bakr al-Baghdadi
  * Osama bin Laden
  * Mohammed Omar
  * Juhayman al-Otaybi
  * Omar Abdel-Rahman
  * Ayman al-Zawahiri

  
  
Related |

  * Islamic extremism
  * Islamic terrorism
  * Jihad
  * Slavery
  * Talibanization
  * Worldwide Caliphate

  
  
| Texts |

  * _Reconstruction_ (Iqbal, 1930s)
  * _Forty Hadith_ (Khomeini, 1940)
  * _Principles_ (Asad, 1961)
  * _Milestones_ (Qutb, 1964)
  * _Islamic Government_ (Khomeini, 1970)
  * _Islamic Declaration_ (Izetbegović, 1969-1970)
  * _The Green Book_ (Gaddafi, 1975)

  
  
---|---  
Historical  
events |

  * Zia-ul-Haq's Islamization
  * Iranian Revolution
  * Grand Mosque seizure
  * Soviet invasion of Afghanistan
  * Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam
  * Popular Arab and Islamic Congress
  * Algerian Civil War
  * September 11 attacks
  * War on Terror
  * Arab Spring
  * Arab Winter

  
  
Influences |

  * Anti-imperialism
  * Anti-Zionism
  * Islamic response to modernity
  * Islamic revival
  * Modern Islamic philosophy

  
  
by region |

  * Balkans
  * Gaza Strip
  * United Kingdom

  
  
Related topics |

  * Criticism
    * Ed Husain
  * Political aspects of Islam
  * Political Islam

  
  
  * Islamism in 
    * South Asia
    * North Africa

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Syrian Civil War  
  
---  
  
Part of the Arab Spring and Arab Winter  
  
  
|

  * Background
  * Timeline

  
  
---  
  
| Background |

  * 1963 _coup d'état_
  * 1966 _coup d'état_
  * 1970 "Corrective Revolution"
  * 1979–82 Islamic uprising
  * 1999 Latakia protests
  * 2000–01 Damascus Spring
  * 2004 Qamishli riots
  * Syrian occupation of Lebanon
  * 2005 Damascus Declaration
  * Human rights in Syria

  
  
---|---  
2011  
(Jan–Apr • May–Aug • Sep–Dec) |

  * Death of Hamza Ali Al-Khateeb
  * Siege of Daraa
  * Siege of Baniyas
  * Talkalakh siege
  * Siege of Rastan and Talbiseh
  * Jisr ash-Shugur operation
  * Siege of Hama
  * Siege of Homs
  * Jabal al-Zawiya operation
  * Siege of Latakia
  * Deir ez-Zor Clashes
  * Rif Dimashq clashes
    * Battle of Zabadani
    * Battle of Douma
  * Daraa Governorate clashes
  * First Battle of Rastan
  * Shayrat and Tiyas airbase ambush
  * Idlib Governorate clashes
  * Jabal al-Zawiya massacres

  
  
2012  
(Jan–Apr • May–Aug • Sep–Dec) |

  * al-Midan bombing
  * Second Battle of Rastan
  * First Idlib operation
  * First Battle of Idlib
  * First Battle of al-Qusayr
  * Second Idlib operation
    * Battle of Taftanaz
  * Third Battle of Rastan
  * Houla massacre
  * Battle of al-Haffah
  * Al-Qubeir massacre
  * Battle of Tremseh
  * Battle of Damascus
    * Damascus bombing
  * Battle of Aleppo
    * Battle of Anadan
    * Siege of Base 46
  * Al-Hasakah Governorate campaign (2012–13)
  * First Rif Dimashq offensive
    * Darayya massacre
  * Battle of Khirbet al-Joz
  * Battle of Maarrat al-Nu'man (2012)
  * First Siege of Wadi Deif
  * Battle of Harem
  * Second Rif Dimashq offensive
    * Battle of Darayya
  * Aqrab massacre
  * First Hama offensive
    * Halfaya massacre
  * Battle of Darayya
  * Quneitra Governorate clashes
  * Talbiseh bakery massacre

  
  
2013  
(Jan–Apr • May–Dec) |

  * Battle of Safira
  * Battle of Shadadeh
  * Damascus offensive
  * Raqqa campaign (2012–13) (Battle of Raqqa (2013))
  * Daraa offensive
  * Third Rif Dimashq offensive
    * Battle of Jdaidet al-Fadl
  * Ghouta chemical attack
  * Al-Qusayr offensive
    * Second Battle of al-Qusayr
  * Bayda and Baniyas massacres
  * Second Hama offensive
  * Hatla massacre
  * Khan al-Assal chemical attack
  * Khan al-Assal massacre
  * Adra massacre
  * Battle of Ras al-Ayn
  * Battle of Tell Abyad
  * Fourth Rif Dimashq offensive
  * Aleppo offensive

  
  
2014  
(Jan–Jul • Aug–Dec) |

  * First Inter-Rebel Conflict
    * Battle of Markada
    * First Deir ez-Zor Offensive
  * Battle of Mork
  * 2nd Daraa Offensive
  * Maan massacre
  * Al-Otaiba ambush
  * 4th Idlib Offensive
  * Battle of Hosn
  * 2nd Latakia Offensive
  * Battle of Al-Malihah
  * Kafr Zita chemical attack
  * Second Siege of Wadi Deif
  * 2nd Qalamoun Offensive
    * Battle of Arsal
  * First Battle of the Shaer gas field
  * Eastern Syria Offensive
    * Battle for Tabqa Air base
  * Northern Aleppo offensive (February–July 2014)
  * 3rd Hama Offensive
  * Quneitra Offensive
  * 6th Rif Dimashq offensive
  * Siege of Kobanî
  * 3rd Daraa offensive
  * 2nd Al-Safira offensive
  * Idlib Raid
  * Second Inter-Rebel Conflict
  * Second Battle of the Shaer gas field
  * Battle of Al-Shaykh Maskin
  * 2nd Deir ez-Zor offensive

  
  
2015  
(Jan–Jul • Aug–Dec) |

  * An-26 crash
  * 4th Daraa Offensive
  * Southern Syria Offensive
  * Eastern al-Hasakah offensive
  * 1st Battle of Sarrin
  * 2nd Battle of Sarrin
  * Battle of Bosra
  * 5th Idlib Offensive
  * Second Battle of Idlib
  * Battle of Nasib Border Crossing
  * 2nd Battle of Yarmouk Camp
  * Western al-Hasakah offensive
  * Palmyra offensive (May 2015)
  * 2015 Qamishli bombings
  * Tell Abyad offensive
  * Kobanî massacre
  * Quneitra offensive
  * Palmyra offensive (July–August 2015)
  * 7th Rif Dimashq offensive
  * Northwestern Syria offensive
  * 2015 Aleppo offensive
  * 2015 Al-Hawl offensive
  * Homs offensive (November–December 2015)
  * East Aleppo offensive (2015–16)
  * Latakia offensive (2015–2016)
  * Tishrin Dam offensive
  * 2015 Russian Sukhoi Su-24 shootdown

  
  
2016  
(Jan–Apr • May–Aug • Sep–Dec) |

  * Second Battle of Al-Shaykh Maskin
  * 3rd Deir ez-Zor offensive
  * Sayyidah Zaynab bombings
  * Northern Aleppo offensive (February 2016)
  * Ithriyah-Raqqa offensive (February–March 2016)
  * Al-Shaddadi offensive (2016)
  * February Homs bombings
  * February Sayyidah Zaynab bombings
  * 2016 Khanasir offensive
  * Battle of Tel Abyad
  * Battle of Maarrat al-Nu'man (2016)
  * Battle of Qamishli (April 2016)
  * Northern Aleppo offensive (March–June 2016)
  * Palmyra offensive (March 2016)
  * East Ghouta inter-rebel conflict (April–May 2016)
  * 8th Rif Dimashq offensive
  * Northern Raqqa offensive (May 2016)
  * May 2016 Jableh and Tartous bombings
  * Ithriyah-Raqqa offensive (June 2016)
  * 9th Rif Dimashq offensive
  * Manbij offensive
    * Tokhar
  * 2016 Southern Aleppo campaign
  * Battle of al-Rai (August 2016)
  * 2016 Aleppo summer campaign
  * Western al-Bab offensive (September 2016)
  * 5 September 2016 Syria bombings
  * September 2016 Deir ez-Zor air raid
  * September 2016 Urum al-Kubra Aid Convoy attack
  * September Aleppo offensive
  * 2016 Dabiq offensive
  * Western al-Bab offensive (October–November 2016)
  * Aleppo offensive (September–October 2016)
  * Khan al-Shih offensive (October–November 2016)
  * Raqqa campaign (2016–present)
  * Battle of al-Bab
  * Aleppo offensive (November–December 2016)
  * Palmyra offensive (December 2016)

  
  
2017  
(Jan–Apr • May–Aug • Sep–Dec) |

  * Wadi Barada offensive (2016–17)
  * January 2017 Azaz bombing
  * Syrian Desert campaign (December 2016–April 2017)
  * Idlib Governorate clashes (2017)
  * Deir ez-Zor offensive (January–February 2017)
  * Daraa offensive (February–June 2017)
  * ISIL Daraa offensive (February 2017)
  * Qaboun offensive (2017)
  * Palmyra offensive (2017)
  * East Aleppo offensive (January–April 2017)
  * March 2017 Damascus bombings
  * 2017 al-Jinah airstrike
  * Hama offensive (March–April 2017)
  * Battle of Tabqa (2017)
  * Khan Shaykhun chemical attack
  * 2017 Shayrat missile strike
  * 2017 Aleppo suicide car bombing
  * April 2017 Turkish airstrikes in Syria and Iraq
  * East Ghouta inter-rebel conflict (April–May 2017)
  * Syrian Desert campaign (May–July 2017)
  * Maskanah Plains offensive
  * East Hama offensive
  * Battle of Raqqa (2017)
  * 9th Daraa
  * Southern Raqqa offensive (June 2017)
  * 2017 Jobar offensive
  * Quneitra offensive (June 2017)
  * Idlib Governorate clashes (July 2017)
  * Central Syria campaign (2017)
  * 4nd Qalamoun
  * Deir ez-Zor offensive (September 2017–present)
  * Hama offensive (September 2017)
  * Northeastern Hama offensive (2017)
  * Turkish military operation in Idlib Governorate
  * Battle of Harasta
  * Eastern Syria campaign (September 2017–present)
    * 2017 Euphrates Crossing offensive
    * 2017 Mayadin offensive
    * Battle of Deir ez-Zor (September–November 2017)
    * 2017 Abu Kamal offensive
  * Beit Jinn offensive

  
  
Spillover |

  * Spillover into Lebanon
    * Lebanese–Syrian border clashes
    * Battle of Sidon
    * Iranian Embassy Bombing
    * Northern Lebanon Clashes
    * 3nd Qalamoun
  * Syrian-Turkish border clashes
    * December 2011 Syrian–Turkish border clash
    * Turkish aircraft shootdown
    * October 2012 Syrian-Turkish border clashes
    * Reyhanlı bombings
    * January 2014 Turkish airstrike in Syria
  * Israeli–Syrian ceasefire line incidents
    * March 2017 incident
  * Jordanian-Syrian border clashes
    * April 2014 Jordanian–Syrian border airstrike
  * Spillover into Iraq
    * Akashat ambush
    * Operation al-Shabah
    * April 2014 Iraqi–Syrian border airstrike
  * Assassination of Andrei Karlov
  * Turkish military intervention in Syria
  * 2017 Russian Air Force Al-Bab incident
  * 2017 Deir ez-Zor missile strike

  
  
|

Involved parties  
  
---  
  
| Syria |

| Ba'ath Government |

  * Arab Socialist Ba'ath Party – Syria Region
  * Syrian Social Nationalist Party
  * Arab Socialist Movement
  * Syrian Communist Party

  
  
---|---  
Military & Militias |

  * Syrian Armed Forces
  * Syrian Resistance
  * PFLP-GC
  * al-Quds Brigade
  * Palestine Liberation Army
  * Smaller groups

  
  
Support for the government |

  * Hezbollah involvement
  * Iranian involvement
    * Liwa Fatemiyoun
  * Russia's involvement
    * medical facility targeting
    * military intervention
    * Wagner Group
  * Russia–Syria–Iran–Iraq coalition
  * Popular Mobilization Forces (Iraq)

  
  
Syrian opposition, Al-Qaeda  
affiliates and allies |

| NCSR Government |

  * National Coalition
    * Local Co-ordination Committees
  * Syrian National Council
  * Supreme Council of the Syrian Revolution
  * National Coordination Committee for Democratic Change
  * Syrian Revolution General Commission
  * Syrian Support Group
  * Adopt a Revolution
  * Syrian Patriotic Group

  
  
---|---  
Opposition militias |

  * Turkish-backed Free Syrian Army
    * Hawar Kilis Operations Room
  * Ahrar al-Sham
  * Army of Free Men
  * Nour al-Din al-Zenki Movement
  * Abu Amara Battalions Covert Special Tasks Force
  * Army of Glory
  * Elite Army
  * 2nd Army
  * Army of Victory
  * Martyrs of Islam Brigade
  * National Liberation Movement
  * Central Division
  * 1st Coastal Division
  * Free Idlib Army
  * 23rd Division
  * Army of Islam
  * al-Rahman Legion
  * 1st Brigade of Damascus
  * Southern Front
  * Army of Free Tribes
  * Criterion Brigades
  * National Front for the Liberation of Syria
  * Unified Syrian Army
  * Company of the People of the Levant
  * Authenticity and Development Front
  * Al-Qaratayn Martyrs Brigade
  * Revolutionary Commando Army
  * Elite Division
  * Smaller groups

  
  
al-Qaeda affiliates and allies |

  * Tahrir al-Sham
  * Turkistan Islamic Party in Syria
  * Caucasus Emirate
  * Ajnad al-Kavkaz
  * Junud al Makhdi
  * Malhama Tactical
  * Ansar al-Islam splinter faction
  * Smaller groups

  
  
Allied groups (to the Opposition militias) |

  * Muslim Brotherhood of Syria
  * Grey Wolves
  * Smaller groups

  
  
Support for the Opposition |

  * American-led intervention
    * American rescue mission
  * Jordanian intervention
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Turkey

  
  
Rojava (SDF) |

| Rojava government |

  * Democratic Union Party
  * Kurdish National Council
  * Smaller political parties

  
  
---|---  
SDF groups |

  * People's Protection Units
  * Women's Protection Units
  * Anti-Terror Units
  * Al-Sanadid Forces
  * Army of Revolutionaries
  * Elite Forces
  * SDF Military Councils
  * Syriac Military Council (Bethnahrain Women's Protection Forces
  * Jabhat Thuwar al-Raqqa
  * Raqqa Hawks Brigade
  * Northern Democratic Brigade
  * Free Officers Union
  * Liberation Brigade faction
  * Shahba Forces
  * Liwa Owais al-Qorani remnants
  * Martyr Amara Arab Women's Battalion
  * Battalion of Karachok Martyrs
  * Revolutionary Forces
  * Khabour Guards
  * Nattoreh
  * Smaller groups

  
  
Allied groups |

  * Patriotic Union of Kurdistan
  * Kurdistan Workers' Party
  * International Freedom Battalion
  * International Anti-Fascist Battalion
  * Sinjar Resistance Units
  * Êzîdxan Women's Units
  * Smaller groups

  
  
ISIL |

| Islamic State of  
Iraq and the Levant |

  * Military of ISIL
  * Dokumacılar
  * Khalid ibn al-Walid Army
  * Liwa al-Aqsa
  * Group of the One and Only
  * Liwa Dawud

  
  
---|---  
  
|

People  
  
---  
  
  * Ammar Abdulhamid
  * Ali al-Abdallah
  * Adnan al-Aroor
  * al-Assad family
    * Bashar
    * Maher
    * Rifaat
    * Rami Makhlouf
    * Hafez Makhlouf
  * Riad al-Asaad
  * Anwar al-Bunni
  * Fahd Jassem al-Freij
  * Haitham al-Maleh
  * Moaz al-Khatib
  * Kamal al-Labwani
  * Hamza al-Khateeb
  * Tal al-Mallohi
  * Fida al-Sayed
  * Riad al-Turk
  * Khaled Khoja
  * Ammar al-Qurabi
  * Suheir Atassi
  * Ali Sadreddine Al-Bayanouni
  * Aref Dalila
  * Farid Ghadry
  * Burhan Ghalioun
  * Razan Ghazzawi
  * Ghassan Hitto
  * Salim Idris
  * Randa Kassis
  * Abdul Halim Khaddam
  * Michel Kilo
  * Bassma Kodmani
  * Ali Habib Mahmud
  * Ali Mahmoud Othman
  * Ibrahim Qashoush
  * Dawoud Rajiha
  * Yassin al-Haj Saleh
  * Bouthaina Shaaban
  * Adib Shishakly
  * Abdulbaset Sieda
  * Riad Seif
  * Fadwa Soliman
  * Mohamad Anas Haitham Soueid
  * Yaser Tabbara
  * Razan Zaitouneh
  * Rami Jarrah
  * Abdurrahman Mustafa

  
  
|

  * Issues
  * Peace process
  * Related topics
  * Elections

  
  
---  
  
| Issues |

  * Casualties
  * Chemical weapons
  * Cities and towns
  * Damaged heritage sites
  * Foreign involvement
  * Human rights violations
  * Humanitarian aid
  * International reactions
  * International demonstrations and protests
  * Massacres
  * Refugees (European migrant crisis)
  * Sectarianism and minorities
  * Spillover into Lebanon
  * Syrian reactions

  
  
---|---  
Peace process |

  * Arab League monitors
  * Friends of Syria Group
  * Kofi Annan peace plan
    * UN Supervision Mission
  * Lakhdar Brahimi peace plan
  * U.S.–Russia peace proposals on Syria
  * 39th G8 summit
  * UN Security Council Resolution 2118
  * Geneva II Conference
  * 2015 Zabadani cease-fire agreement
  * 2015 Vienna talks
  * 2016 Geneva talks

  
  
Related topics |

  * 2014 Syrian detainee report
  * Exclusive mandate
  * Fourth Extraordinary Session of the Islamic Summit Conference
  * International recognition of the Syrian National Council
  * Syria Files
  * Syrian media coverage
  * _The Return to Homs_
  * _Silvered Water, Syria Self-Portrait_
  * Sunnistan
  * Syrian presidential election, 2014

  
  
Elections and referendums  
held during the civil war |

  * Syrian local elections, 2011
  * Syrian constitutional referendum, 2012
  * Syrian presidential election, 2014
  * Rojava local elections, 2015
  * Syrian parliamentary election, 2016
  * Northern Syria local elections, 2017

  
  
  * Category

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Armed groups in the Iraq conflict (2003–present)  
  
---  
Iraqi government |

  * Iraqi Armed Forces
    * Iraqi Army
    * Iraqi Air Force
  * Iraqi Police
    * Iraqi Police Service
    * National Police
    * Supporting Forces
  * Facilities Protection Service

  
  
Ba'athists |

  * Army of the Men of the Naqshbandi Order
  * Fedayeen Saddam
  * General Military Council for Iraqi Revolutionaries
  * Al-Awda
  * General Command of the Armed Forces, Resistance and Liberation in Iraq
  * Popular Army
  * New Return
  * Patriotic Front
  * Political Media Organ of the Ba'ath Party
  * Popular Resistance for the Liberation of Iraq
  * Al-Abud Network

  
  
Militias  
and others |

| Shia Islamic militias |

  * Mahdi Army
  * Abu Deraa's Mahdi Army faction
  * Badr Organization
  * Sheibani Network
  * Soldiers of Heaven
  * Special Groups (Iraq)
    * Asa'ib Ahl al-Haq
    * Promised Day Brigade
    * Kata'ib Hezbollah

  
  
---|---  
Sunni Islamic militias |

  * Awakening groups
  * 1920 Revolution Brigade
  * Jaish al-Rashideen
  * Islamic Army in Iraq
  * Islamic Front for the Iraqi Resistance
  * Hamas of Iraq

  
  
Kurdish militias |

  * Peshmerga
  * Kurdistan Workers' Party
  * Kurdistan Freedom Hawks
  * Kurdistan Free Life Party

  
  
Turkmen militias |

  * Iraqi Turkmen Front
  * 16Brigade
  * 52nd Brigade
  * 92nd Brigade
  * Brigade of Imam Hussein
  * Sayyid al-Shuhada
  * Bashir Regiment

  
  
Assyrian militias |

  * Qaraqosh Protection Committee
  * Nineveh Plain Forces
  * Nineveh Plain Protection Units
  * Dwekh Nawsha
  * Syriac Military Council
  * Kataib Rouh Allah Issa Ibn Miriam

  
  
Yazidi militias |

  * Asayîşa Êzîdxanê
  * Êzîdxan Protection Force
  * Sinjar Alliance
    * Sinjar Resistance Units
    * Êzîdxan Women's Units

  
  
Insurgents |

| Nationalist Salafis |

  * Mujahideen Army
  * Mujahideen Battalions of the Salafi Group of Iraq
  * Islamic Salafist Boy Scout Battalions
  * Mohammad's Army

  
  
---|---  
Salafi Jihadists |

  * Ansar al-Islam
  * Black Banner Organization
  * Abu Theeb's group
  * Jaish Abi Baker's group
  * Jamaat Ansar al-Sunna
  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
    * Mujahideen Shura Council
    * Tanzim Qaidat al-Jihad fi Bilad al-Rafidayn
    * Jama'at al-Tawhid wal-Jihad
  * Wakefulness and Holy War

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Islamic terrorism in Europe (2014–present)  
  
---  
General |

  * Terrorism in Europe
  * Spillover of the Syrian Civil War
  * ISIL-related terror attacks in France
  * Brussels ISIL terror cell
  * Insurgency in the North Caucasus
  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
  * Al-Qaeda involvement in Europe
  * Lone wolf
  * Islamic extremism
  * Salafi jihadism

  
  
Attacks |

| The Balkans |

  * Operation Ruben
  * 2016 plot

  
  
---|---  
Belgium |

  * Jewish Museum of Belgium shooting
  * 2016 Brussels bombings
  * 2016 stabbing of Charleroi police officers
  * 2016 stabbing of Brussels police officers
  * June 2017 Brussels attack
  * August 2017 Brussels attack

  
  
France |

  * 2014 Tours police station stabbing
  * January 2015 Île-de-France attacks
    * _Charlie Hebdo_ shooting
    * Porte de Vincennes siege
  * 2015 Nice stabbing attack
  * 2015 Saint-Quentin-Fallavier attack
  * 2015 Thalys train attack
  * November 2015 Paris attacks
  * January 2016 Paris police station attack
  * 2016 Magnanville stabbing
  * 2016 Nice attack
  * 2016 Normandy church attack
  * Notre Dame Cathedral bombing attempt
  * March 2017 Île-de-France attacks
  * April 2017 Champs-Élysées attack
  * 2017 Notre Dame attack
  * Levallois-Perret attack

  
  
Germany |

  * 2015 Eschborn-Frankfurt City Loop
  * 2015 Hannover bombing plot
  * Munich New Year's Eve train stations plot
  * 2016 Düsseldorf terrorism plot
  * 2016 Hanover stabbing
  * 2016 Würzburg train attack
  * 2016 Ansbach bombing
  * 2016 Chemnitz terrorism plot
  * 2016 Ludwigshafen bombing plot
  * 2016 Berlin attack

  
  
Nordic countries |

  * 2014 Norway terror threat
  * 2015 Copenhagen shootings
  * 2017 Stockholm attack

  
  
Russia |

  * 2016 Shchelkovo Highway police station attack
  * 2017 Saint Petersburg Metro bombing

  
  
Spain |

  * 2017 Barcelona attacks

  
  
United Kingdom |

  * 2017 Westminster attack
  * Manchester Arena bombing
  * June 2017 London Bridge attack

  
  
Counter-terrorism |

  * Opération Sentinelle (France)
  * January 2015 anti-terrorism operations in Belgium
  * Brussels lockdown (Belgium)
  * 2016 Brussels police raids (Belgium)
  * Operation Ruben (Bosnia and Herzegovina)
  * 2015 Saint-Denis raid (France)
  * 2017 Saint Petersburg raid (Russia)

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 310712497
  * LCCN: n2014059810
  * GND: 1070104361
  * SELIBR: 386347
  * SUDOC: 183615298
  * BNF: cb16939442c (data)
  * NLA: 53928808
  * NDL: 001191432

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Islamic_State_of_Iraq_and_the_Levant&oldid=816900072"

Categories:

  * 1999 establishments in Asia
  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
  * Anti-government factions of the Syrian Civil War
  * Anti-Shi'ism
  * Apocalyptic groups
  * Dissolution of Iraq
  * Dissolution of Syria
  * Groups practising sexual slavery
  * Iraqi insurgency (2003–11)
  * Iraqi insurgency (2011–13)
  * Islamism in Iraq
  * Islamism in Syria
  * Islamist groups
  * Jihadist groups
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by China
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by Russia
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by Syria
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by the United Kingdom
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by the United States
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by Australia
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by India
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by Iran
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by Iraq
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by the European Union
  * Organisations designated as terrorist by Pakistan
  * Organizations designated as terrorist by Turkey
  * Organizations designated as terrorist in Asia
  * Persecution of Christians by ISIL
  * Persecution of Christians by Muslims
  * Persecution of LGBT people
  * Persecution of Yazidis
  * Rebel groups in Egypt
  * Rebel groups in Iraq
  * Rebel groups in Libya
  * Rebel groups in Syria
  * Salafi groups
  * Sunni Islamist groups
  * Terrorism in Iraq
  * Terrorism in Lebanon
  * Terrorism in Syria
  * Terrorism in Turkey
  * Irregular military
  * Politics of Syria
  * Politics of Iraq
  * Iraq War
  * Violence against Shia Muslims
  * Violence against Shia Muslims in Iraq
  * Violence against LGBT people
  * Wahhabism
  * Totalitarian states

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with failed verification
  * Articles with failed verification from October 2016
  * CS1 Albanian-language sources (sq)
  * Articles needing more detailed references
  * Pages containing links to subscription-only content
  * CS1 Norwegian-language sources (no)
  * CS1 Chinese-language sources (zh)
  * CS1 German-language sources (de)
  * CS1 maint: Unfit url
  * Articles with minor POV problems from October 2015
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * CS1 Swedish-language sources (sv)
  * Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
  * Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
  * Articles that may be too long from June 2017
  * Use dmy dates from January 2017
  * Use British English from August 2016
  * Articles containing Arabic-language text
  * War faction articles using ambiguous parameters
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from December 2015
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from May 2015
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from June 2017
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SELIBR identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * View source
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikinews
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * Alemannisch
  * አማርኛ
  * العربية
  * অসমীয়া
  * Asturianu
  * Авар
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Bikol Central
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Brezhoneg
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Føroyskt
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Galego
  * گیلکی
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Interlingue
  * Ирон
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kiswahili
  * Kurdî
  * Кыргызча
  * ລາວ
  * لۊری شومالی
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Lietuvių
  * Limburgs
  * Magyar
  * मैथिली
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * Malti
  * मराठी
  * მარგალური
  * مصرى
  * مازِرونی
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Baso Minangkabau
  * Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nederlands
  * नेपाली
  * 日本語
  * Нохчийн
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Occitan
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * پښتو
  * ភាសាខ្មែរ
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * Sardu
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * سنڌي
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Ślůnski
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Basa Sunda
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Türkmençe
  * Thuɔŋjäŋ
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 文言
  * 吴语
  * 粵語
  * Zazaki
  * Zeêuws
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 24 December 2017, at 14:24.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ lit.]: literal translation
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

