

# Ivy League

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

This article is about the group of colleges and the athletic conference that
gave the group its name. For other uses, see Ivy League (disambiguation).

Ivy League  
---  
Established | 1954  
Association | NCAA  
Division | Division I  
Subdivision | FCS  
Members | 8  
Sports fielded |

  * 33 
    * men's: 17
    * women's: 16

  
  
Region | Northeast  
Headquarters | Princeton, New Jersey  
Commissioner | Robin Harris[1] (since 2009)  
Website | ivyleaguesports.com  
Locations  
  
The **Ivy League** is a collegiate athletic conference comprising sports teams
from eight private universities in the Northeastern United States. The
conference name is also commonly used to refer to those eight schools as a
group beyond the sports context.[2] The eight members are Brown University,
Columbia University, Cornell University, Dartmouth College, Harvard
University, the University of Pennsylvania, Princeton University, and Yale
University. The term _Ivy League_ has connotations of academic excellence,
selectivity in admissions, and social elitism.

While the term was in use as early as 1933, it became official only after the
formation of the NCAA Division I athletic conference in 1954.[3] Seven of the
eight schools were founded during the United States colonial period; Cornell
was founded in 1865. Ivy League institutions account for seven of the nine
Colonial Colleges chartered before the American Revolution; the other two are
Rutgers University and the College of William & Mary.

Ivy League schools are generally viewed as some of the most prestigious, and
are ranked among the best universities worldwide by _U.S. News& World
Report_.[4] All eight universities place in the top fifteen of the _U.S. News
& World Report_ 2017 nation university rankings, including the top four
schools and five of the top eight.[5] U.S. News has named a member of the Ivy
League as the best national university in each of the past seventeen years
ending with the 2017 rankings: Princeton ten times, Harvard twice, and the two
schools tied for first five times.

Undergraduate enrollments range from about 4,000 to 14,000,[6] making them
larger than those of a typical private liberal arts college and smaller than a
typical public state university. Total enrollments, including graduate
students, range from approximately 6,400 at Dartmouth to over 20,000 at
Columbia, Cornell, Harvard, and Penn. Ivy League financial endowments range
from Brown's $3.5 billion to Harvard's $34.5 billion,[7] the largest financial
endowment of any academic institution in the world.[8]

Locations of Ivy League universities

## Contents

  * 1 Members
  * 2 History
    * 2.1 Year founded
    * 2.2 Origin of the name
    * 2.3 Pre–Ivy League
    * 2.4 History of the athletic league
      * 2.4.1 19th and early 20th centuries
      * 2.4.2 Post–World War II
  * 3 Academics
    * 3.1 Admissions
    * 3.2 Prestige
    * 3.3 Collaboration
  * 4 Culture
    * 4.1 Fashion and lifestyle
    * 4.2 Social elitism
    * 4.3 U.S. presidents in the Ivy League
  * 5 Student demographics
    * 5.1 Geographic distribution
    * 5.2 Socioeconomics and social class
  * 6 Competition and athletics
    * 6.1 Teams
    * 6.2 Historical results
    * 6.3 Rivalries
      * 6.3.1 Intra-conference football rivalries
      * 6.3.2 Extra-conference football rivalries
  * 7 Championships
    * 7.1 NCAA team championships
  * 8 Athletic facilities
  * 9 Other Ivies
    * 9.1 Ivy Plus
  * 10 See also
  * 11 Notes
  * 12 External links

## Members

Ivy League universities have some of the largest university financial
endowments in the world, which allows the universities to provide many
resources for their academic programs and research endeavors. As of 2014,
Harvard University has an endowment of $36.4 billion.[9] Additionally, each
university receives millions of dollars in research grants and other subsidies
from federal and state governments.

Institution | Location | Athletic nickname | Enrollment | 2015 Endowment |
Academic staff | Colors  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Brown University | Providence, Rhode Island | Bears |
7003864900000000000♠8,649 | $3.3 billion[10] | 7002736000000000000♠736[11] |  
Columbia University | New York City, New York | Lions |
7004229200000000000♠22,920 | $9.6 billion[12] | 7003376300000000000♠3,763[13]
|  
Cornell University | Ithaca, New York | Big Red | 7004206330000000000♠20,633 |
$6.2 billion[14] | 7003290800000000000♠2,908 |  
Dartmouth College | Hanover, New Hampshire | Big Green |
7003614100000000000♠6,141 | $4.7 billion[15] | 571 |  
Harvard University | Cambridge, Massachusetts | Crimson |
7004212250000000000♠21,225 | $37.6 billion[16] | 7003467100000000000♠4,671[17]
|  
University of Pennsylvania | Philadelphia, Pennsylvania | Quakers |
7004206430000000000♠20,643 | $10.1 billion[18] | 7003446400000000000♠4,464[19]
|  
Princeton University | Princeton, New Jersey | Tigers |
7003759200000000000♠7,592 | $22.7 billion[14] | 7003117200000000000♠1,172 |  
Yale University | New Haven, Connecticut | Bulldogs |
7004116660000000000♠11,666 | $25.6 billion[20] | 7003414000000000000♠4,140[21]
|  
  
## History

### Year founded

Institution | Founded | Founding affiliation  
---|---|---  
Harvard University[22] | 1636 as _New College_ | Calvinist (Congregationalist
Puritans)  
Yale University | 1701 as _Collegiate School_ | Calvinist (Congregationalist)  
University of Pennsylvania | 1740 as _Unnamed Charity School_[23] |
Nonsectarian,[24] founded by Church of England/Methodists members[25][26]  
Princeton University | 1746 as _College of New Jersey_ |  Nonsectarian,[27]
founded by Calvinist Presbyterians[27]  
Columbia University | 1754 as _King's College_ | Church of England  
Brown University | 1764 as the _College in the English Colony of Rhode Island
and Providence Plantations_ | Baptist, founding charter promises "no religious
tests" and "full liberty of conscience"[28]  
Dartmouth College | 1769 | Calvinist (Congregationalist)  
Cornell University | 1865 | Nonsectarian  
  
    **Note:** Six of the eight Ivy League universities consider their founding dates to be simply the date that they received their charters and thus became legal corporations with the authority to grant academic degrees. Harvard University uses the date that the legislature of the Massachusetts Bay Colony formally allocated funds for the creation of a college. Harvard was chartered in 1650, although classes had been conducted for approximately a decade by then. The University of Pennsylvania initially considered its founding date to be 1750; this is the year which appears on the first iteration of the university seal.[29] Later in Penn's early history, the university changed its officially recognized founding date to 1749, which was used for all of the nineteenth century, including a centennial celebration in 1849. In 1899, Penn's board of trustees formally adopted a third founding date of 1740, in response to a petition from Penn's General Alumni Society. Penn was chartered in 1755, the same year collegiate classes began. "Religious affiliation" refers to financial sponsorship, formal association with, and promotion by, a religious denomination. All of the schools in the Ivy League are private and not currently associated with any religion.

###  Origin of the name

Harvard Yard, 2007: Hollis Hall, Stoughton Hall, and Holworthy Hall

Brown's Front Green, 2012: Hope College, Manning Hall, University Hall, and
Slater Hall

Yale's Old Campus, 2012: Durfee Hall, Battell Chapel, Farnham Hall, and
Lawrence Hall

On the Dartmouth Green, 2007: Dartmouth Hall and Thornton Hall

Students have long revered the ivied walls of older colleges. "Planting the
ivy" was a customary class day ceremony at many colleges in the 1800s. In
1893, an alumnus told _The Harvard Crimson_ , "In 1850, class day was placed
upon the University Calendar.... the custom of planting the ivy, while the ivy
oration was delivered, arose about this time."[30] At Penn, graduating seniors
started the custom of planting ivy at a university building each spring in
1873 and that practice was formally designated as "Ivy Day" in 1874.[31] Ivy
planting ceremonies are reported for Yale,[32] Simmons,[33] Bryn Mawr[34] and
many others. Princeton's "Ivy Club" was founded in 1879.[35]

The first usage of _Ivy_ in reference to a group of colleges is from
sportswriter Stanley Woodward (1895–1965).

> A proportion of our eastern ivy colleges are meeting little fellows another
Saturday before plunging into the strife and the turmoil.

>

> — Stanley Woodward, _New York Tribune_ , October 14, 1933, describing the
football season[36]

The first known instance of the term _Ivy League_ being used appeared in _The
Christian Science Monitor_ on February 7, 1935.[3][37][38] Several
sportswriters and other journalists used the term shortly later to refer to
the older colleges, those along the northeastern seaboard of the United
States, chiefly the nine institutions with origins dating from the colonial
era, together with the United States Military Academy (West Point), the United
States Naval Academy, and a few others. These schools were known for their
long-standing traditions in intercollegiate athletics, often being the first
schools to participate in such activities. However, at this time, none of
these institutions made efforts to form an athletic league.

A common folk etymology attributes the name to the Roman numeral for four
(IV), asserting that there was such a sports league originally with four
members. The _Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins_ helped to
perpetuate this belief. The supposed "IV League" was formed over a century ago
and consisted of Harvard, Yale, Princeton, and a fourth school that varies
depending on who is telling the story.[39][40][41] However, it is clear that
Harvard, Princeton, Yale and Columbia met on November 23, 1876 at the so-
called Massasoit Convention to decide on uniform rules for the emerging game
of American football, which rapidly spread.[42]

###  Pre–Ivy League

Chancellor Green Library at Princeton, 2007

Robinson Hall at Brown, 2009

Cornell baseball player, 1908

Seven out of the eight Ivy League schools were founded before the American
Revolution; Cornell was founded just after the American Civil War. These seven
were the primary colleges in the Northern and Middle Colonies, and their early
faculties and founding boards were largely drawn from other Ivy League
institutions. There were also some British graduates from the University of
Cambridge, the University of Oxford, the University of St. Andrews, the
University of Edinburgh, and elsewhere on their boards. Similarly, the founder
of The College of William & Mary, in 1693, was a British graduate of the
University of Edinburgh. Cornell provided Stanford University with its first
president.

The influence of these institutions on the founding of other colleges and
universities is notable. This included the Southern public college movement
which blossomed in the decades surrounding the turn of the 19th century when
Georgia, South Carolina, North Carolina and Virginia established what became
the flagship universities for each of these states. In 1801, a majority of the
first board of trustees for what became the University of South Carolina were
Princeton alumni. They appointed Jonathan Maxcy, a Brown graduate, as the
university's first president. Thomas Cooper, an Oxford alumnus and University
of Pennsylvania faculty member, became the second president of the South
Carolina college. The founders of the University of California came from Yale,
hence the school colors of University of California are Yale Blue and
California Gold.[43]

Some of the Ivy League schools have identifiable Protestant roots, while
others were founded as non-sectarian schools. Church of England _King's
College_ broke up during the Revolution and was reformed as public
nonsectarian Columbia College. In the early nineteenth century, the specific
purpose of training Calvinist ministers was handed off to theological
seminaries, but a denominational tone and such relics as compulsory chapel
often lasted well into the twentieth century. Penn and Brown were officially
founded as nonsectarian schools. Brown's charter promised no religious tests
and "full liberty of conscience", but placed control in the hands of a board
of twenty-two Baptists, five Quakers, four Congregationalists, and five
Episcopalians. Cornell has been strongly nonsectarian from its founding.

"Ivy League" is sometimes used as a way of referring to an elite class, even
though institutions such as Cornell University were among the first in the
United States to reject racial and gender discrimination in their admissions
policies. This dates back to at least 1935.[44] Novels[45] and memoirs[46]
attest this sense, as a social elite; to some degree independent of the actual
schools.

After the Second World War, the present Ivy League institutions slowly widened
their selection of their students. They had always had distinguished
faculties; some of the first Americans with doctorates had taught for them;
but they now decided that they could not both be world-class research
institutions and be competitive in the highest ranks of American college
sport; in addition, the schools experienced the scandals of any other big-time
football programs, although more quietly.[47]

### History of the athletic league

Yale University's four-oared crew team, posing with the 1876 Centennial
Regatta trophy.

The 1879 Brown baseball varsity, with W.E. White seated second from right;
White's appearance in an 1879 major league game, the first for an African
American, came 68 years before Jackie Robinson permanently broke the baseball
color line[48]

Yale rowing team in the annual Harvard-Yale Regatta, 2007

Penn's ICAA track champions in 1907

#### 19th and early 20th centuries

The first formal athletic league involving eventual Ivy League schools (or any
US colleges, for that matter) was created in 1870 with the formation of the
Rowing Association of American Colleges. The RAAC hosted a de facto national
championship in rowing during the period 1870–1894. In 1895, Cornell,
Columbia, and Penn founded the Intercollegiate Rowing Association, which
remains the oldest collegiate athletic organizing body in the US. To this day,
the IRA Championship Regatta determines the national champion in rowing and
all of the Ivies are regularly invited to compete.

A basketball league was later created in 1902, when Columbia, Cornell,
Harvard, Yale and Princeton formed the Eastern Intercollegiate Basketball
League; they were later joined by Penn and Dartmouth.

In 1906, the organization that eventually became the National Collegiate
Athletic Association was formed, primarily to formalize rules for the emerging
sport of football. But of the 39 original member colleges in the NCAA, only
two of them (Dartmouth and Penn) later became Ivies.

In February 1903, intercollegiate wrestling began when Yale accepted a
challenge from Columbia, published in the Yale News. The dual meet took place
prior to a basketball game hosted by Columbia and resulted in a tie. Two years
later, Penn and Princeton also added wrestling teams, leading to the formation
of the student-run Intercollegiate Wrestling Association, now the Eastern
Intercollegiate Wrestling Association (EIWA), the first and oldest collegiate
wrestling league in the US.[49]

In 1930, Columbia, Cornell, Dartmouth, Penn, Princeton and Yale formed the
Eastern Intercollegiate Baseball League; they were later joined by Harvard,
Brown, Army and Navy.

Before the formal establishment of the Ivy League, there was an "unwritten and
unspoken agreement among certain Eastern colleges on athletic relations". The
earliest reference to the "Ivy colleges" came in 1933, when Stanley Woodward
of the New York Herald Tribune used it to refer to the eight current members
plus Army.[3] In 1935, the Associated Press reported on an example of
collaboration between the schools:

> The athletic authorities of the so-called "Ivy League" are considering
drastic measures to curb the increasing tendency toward riotous attacks on
goal posts and other encroachments by spectators on playing fields.

>

> — The Associated Press, _The New York Times_[50]

Despite such collaboration, the universities did not seem to consider the
formation of the league as imminent. Romeyn Berry, Cornell's manager of
athletics, reported the situation in January 1936 as follows:

> I can say with certainty that in the last five years—and markedly in the
last three months—there has been a strong drift among the eight or ten
universities of the East which see a good deal of one another in sport toward
a closer bond of confidence and cooperation and toward the formation of a
common front against the threat of a breakdown in the ideals of amateur sport
in the interests of supposed expediency.

>

> Please do not regard that statement as implying the organization of an
Eastern conference or even a poetic "Ivy League". That sort of thing does not
seem to be in the cards at the moment.[51]

Within a year of this statement and having held month-long discussions about
the proposal, on December 3, 1936, the idea of "the formation of an Ivy
League" gained enough traction among the undergraduate bodies of the
universities that the _Columbia Daily Spectator_ , _The Cornell Daily Sun_ ,
_The Dartmouth_ , _The Harvard Crimson_ , _The Daily Pennsylvanian_ , _The
Daily Princetonian_ and the _Yale Daily News_ would simultaneously run an
editorial entitled "Now Is the Time", encouraging the seven universities to
form the league in an effort to preserve the ideals of athletics.[52] Part of
the editorial read as follows:

> The Ivy League exists already in the minds of a good many of those connected
with football, and we fail to see why the seven schools concerned should be
satisfied to let it exist as a purely nebulous entity where there are so many
practical benefits which would be possible under definite organized
association. The seven colleges involved fall naturally together by reason of
their common interests and similar general standards and by dint of their
established national reputation they are in a particularly advantageous
position to assume leadership for the preservation of the ideals of
intercollegiate athletics.[53]

The Ivies have been competing in sports as long as intercollegiate sports have
existed in the United States. Rowing teams from Harvard and Yale met in the
first sporting event held between students of two U.S. colleges on Lake
Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire, on August 3, 1852. Harvard's team, "The Oneida",
won the race and was presented with trophy black walnut oars from then
presidential nominee General Franklin Pierce. The proposal did not succeed—on
January 11, 1937, the athletic authorities at the schools rejected the
"possibility of a heptagonal league in football such as these institutions
maintain in basketball, baseball and track." However, they noted that the
league "has such promising possibilities that it may not be dismissed and must
be the subject of further consideration."[54]

#### Post–World War II

Students in Stell Hall at Dartmouth's Tuck School of Business, 2007

Students of Yale College, 1866

In 1945 the presidents of the eight schools signed the first _Ivy Group
Agreement_ , which set academic, financial, and athletic standards for the
football teams. The principles established reiterated those put forward in the
Harvard-Yale-Princeton Presidents' Agreement of 1916. The Ivy Group Agreement
established the core tenet that an applicant's ability to play on a team would
not influence admissions decisions:

> The members of the Group reaffirm their prohibition of athletic
scholarships. Athletes shall be admitted as students and awarded financial aid
only on the basis of the same academic standards and economic need as are
applied to all other students.[55]

In 1954, the presidents extended the Ivy Group Agreement to all
intercollegiate sports, effective with the 1955–56 basketball season. This is
generally reckoned as the formal formation of the Ivy League. As part of the
transition, Brown, the only Ivy that hadn't joined the EIBL, did so for the
1954–55 season. A year later, the Ivy League absorbed the EIBL. The Ivy League
claims the EIBL's history as its own. Through the EIBL, it is the oldest
basketball conference in Division I.[56][57]

As late as the 1960s many of the Ivy League universities' undergraduate
programs remained open only to men, with Cornell the only one to have been
coeducational from its founding (1865) and Columbia being the last (1983) to
become coeducational. Before they became coeducational, many of the Ivy
schools maintained extensive social ties with nearby Seven Sisters women's
colleges, including weekend visits, dances and parties inviting Ivy and Seven
Sisters students to mingle. This was the case not only at Barnard College and
Radcliffe College, which are adjacent to Columbia and Harvard, but at more
distant institutions as well. The movie _Animal House_ includes a satiric
version of the formerly common visits by Dartmouth men to Massachusetts to
meet Smith and Mount Holyoke women, a drive of more than two hours. As noted
by Irene Harwarth, Mindi Maline, and Elizabeth DeBra, "The 'Seven Sisters' was
the name given to Barnard, Smith, Mount Holyoke, Vassar, Bryn Mawr, Wellesley,
and Radcliffe, because of their parallel to the Ivy League men’s
colleges."[58]

In 1982 the Ivy League considered adding two members, with Army, Navy, and
Northwestern as the most likely candidates; if it had done so, the league
could probably have avoided being moved into the recently created Division
I-AA (now Division I FCS) for football.[59] In 1983, following the admission
of women to Columbia College, Columbia University and Barnard College entered
into an athletic consortium agreement by which students from both schools
compete together on Columbia University women's athletic teams, which replaced
the women's teams previously sponsored by Barnard.

When Army and Navy departed the Eastern Intercollegiate Baseball League in
1992, all intercollegiate competition involving the eight schools became
united under the Ivy League banner.

## Academics

### Admissions

Admission statistics (Class of 2020)[60] | Applicants | Admission rates  
---|---|---  
**Brown** |  32,390 | 9.01%[61]  
**Columbia** |  36,292 | 6.04%[62]  
**Cornell** |  44,966 | 13.96%[63]  
**Dartmouth** |  20,675 | 10.52%[64]  
**Harvard** |  39,041 | 5.22%[65]  
**Penn** |  38,918 | 9.4%[66]  
**Princeton** |  29,303 | 6.46%[67]  
**Yale** |  31,455 | 6.27%[68]  
  
The Ivy League schools are highly selective, with acceptance rates since 2000
ranging from 6 to 16 percent at each of the universities. Admitted students
come from around the world, although students from New England and the
Northeastern United States make up a significant proportion of
students.[69][70][71]

### Prestige

See also: List of Nobel laureates by university affiliation

Members of the League have been highly ranked by various university rankings.

National academic rankings University  
(in alphabetical order) | ARWU  
(2014)[72] | Forbes  
(2016)[73] | USNWR  
(2014)[74] | Washington Monthly  
(2014)[75]  
---|---|---|---|---  
**Brown** |  43 | 8 | 16 | 113  
**Columbia** |  7 | 16 | 4 | 51  
**Cornell** |  11 | 29 | 15 | 39  
**Dartmouth** |  78–104 | 17 | 11 | 54  
**Harvard** |  1 | 4 | 2 | 10  
**Penn** |  14 | 11 | 8 | 41  
**Princeton** |  5 | 3 | 1 | 27  
**Yale** |  9 | 6 | 3 | 57  
  
Further, Ivy League members have produced many Nobel laureates, winners of the
Nobel Prize and the Nobel Memorial Prize in Economic Sciences. According to
the Nobel Foundation's website, as of 2016 the number of prize-winners
affiliated with each Ivy League university at the time of their awards is:
Brown, 2; Columbia, 17; Cornell, 8; Dartmouth, 0; Harvard, 36; Penn, 4;
Princeton, 14; and Yale, 8.[76] In addition, each university self-reports
their number of affiliated Nobel laureates, but they use varying definitions
for which Nobel winners they claim (for example, alumni, active faculty,
former faculty, visiting faculty, adjunct faculty, etc.)

### Collaboration

Collaboration between the member schools is illustrated by the student-led Ivy
Council that meets in the fall and spring of each year, with representatives
from every Ivy League school. The governing body of the Ivy League is the
Council of Ivy Group Presidents, composed of each university president. During
meetings, the presidents often discuss common procedures and initiatives for
the universities.

## Culture

### Fashion and lifestyle

See also: Ivy League (clothes), Preppy, Take Ivy, and Ivy League (haircut)

Statue of Benjamin Franklin on the campus of the University of Pennsylvania,
2011

Different fashion trends and styles have emerged from Ivy League campuses over
time, and fashion trends such as Ivy League and Preppy are styles often
associated with the Ivy League and its culture.

Ivy League style is a style of men's dress, popular during the late 1950s,
believed to have originated on Ivy League campuses. The clothing stores J.
Press and Brooks Brothers represent perhaps the quintessential Ivy League
dress manner. The Ivy League style is said to be the predecessor to the preppy
style of dress.

Preppy fashion started around 1912 to the late 1940s and 1950s as the Ivy
League style of dress.[77] J. Press represents the quintessential preppy
clothing brand, stemming from the collegiate traditions that shaped the preppy
subculture. In the mid-twentieth century J. Press and Brooks Brothers, both
being pioneers in preppy fashion, had stores on Ivy League school campuses,
including Harvard, Princeton, and Yale.

Some typical preppy styles also reflect traditional upper class New England
leisure activities, such as equestrian, sailing or yachting, hunting, fencing,
rowing, lacrosse, tennis, golf, and rugby. Longtime New England outdoor
outfitters, such as L.L. Bean,[78] became part of conventional preppy style.
This can be seen in sport stripes and colours, equestrian clothing, plaid
shirts, field jackets and nautical-themed accessories. Vacationing in Palm
Beach, Florida, long popular with the East Coast upper class, led to the
emergence of bright colour combinations in leisure wear seen in some brands
such as Lilly Pulitzer.[78] By the 1980s, other brands such as Lacoste,
Izod[79] and Dooney & Bourke became associated with preppy style.

Today, these styles continue to be popular on Ivy League campuses, throughout
the U.S., and abroad, and are oftentimes labeled as "Classic American style"
or "Traditional American style".[80][81]

### Social elitism

The A.D. White Reading Room at Cornell's Uris Library, 2008

A cartoon portrait of the stereotypical Columbia man, 1902

The Ivy League is often associated with the upper class White Anglo-Saxon
Protestant community of the Northeast, Old Money, or more generally, the
American upper middle and upper classes.[82][83][84][85] Although most Ivy
League students come from upper middle- and upper-class families, the student
body has become increasingly more economically and ethnically diverse. The
universities provide significant financial aid to help increase the enrollment
of lower income and middle class students.[86] Several reports suggest,
however, that the proportion of students from less-affluent families remains
low.[87][88]

Phrases such as "Ivy League snobbery"[89] are ubiquitous in nonfiction and
fiction writing of the early and mid-twentieth century. A Louis Auchincloss
character dreads "the aridity of snobbery which he knew infected the Ivy
League colleges".[45] A business writer, warning in 2001 against
discriminatory hiring, presented a cautionary example of an attitude to avoid
(the bracketed phrase is his):

> We Ivy Leaguers [read: mostly white and Anglo] know that an Ivy League
degree is a mark of the kind of person who is likely to succeed in this
organization.[90]

The phrase _Ivy League_ historically has been perceived as connected not only
with academic excellence, but also with social elitism. In 1936, sportswriter
John Kieran noted that student editors at Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Cornell,
Columbia, Dartmouth, and Penn were advocating the formation of an athletic
association. In urging them to consider "Army and Navy and Georgetown and
Fordham and Syracuse and Brown and Pitt" as candidates for membership, he
exhorted:

> It would be well for the proponents of the Ivy League to make it clear (to
themselves especially) that the proposed group would be inclusive but not
"exclusive" as this term is used with a slight up-tilting of the tip of the
nose.[91]

Aspects of Ivy stereotyping were illustrated during the 1988 presidential
election, when George H. W. Bush (Yale '48) derided Michael Dukakis (graduate
of Harvard Law School) for having "foreign-policy views born in Harvard Yard's
boutique."[92] _New York Times_ columnist Maureen Dowd asked "Wasn't this a
case of the pot calling the kettle elite?" Bush explained, however, that,
unlike Harvard, Yale's reputation was "so diffuse, there isn't a symbol, I
don't think, in the Yale situation, any symbolism in it.... Harvard boutique
to me has the connotation of liberalism and elitism" and said _Harvard_ in his
remark was intended to represent "a philosophical enclave" and not a statement
about class.[93] Columnist Russell Baker opined that "Voters inclined to
loathe and fear elite Ivy League schools rarely make fine distinctions between
Yale and Harvard. All they know is that both are full of rich, fancy, stuck-up
and possibly dangerous intellectuals who never sit down to supper in their
undershirt no matter how hot the weather gets."[94] Still, the last five
presidents have all attended Ivy League schools for at least part of their
education— George H. W. Bush (Yale undergrad), Bill Clinton (Yale Law School),
George W. Bush (Yale undergrad, Harvard Business School), Barack Obama
(Columbia undergrad, Harvard Law School), and Donald Trump (Penn undergrad).

###  U.S. presidents in the Ivy League

See also: List of Presidents of the United States by education

Franklin Delano Roosevelt, third from left, top row, with his Harvard class in
1904

Of the forty-four men who have served as President of the United States,
fifteen have graduated from an Ivy League university. Of them, eight have
degrees from Harvard, five from Yale, three from Columbia, two from Princeton
and one from Penn. Twelve presidents have earned Ivy undergraduate degrees.
Three of these were transfer students: Donald Trump transferred from Fordham
University, Barack Obama transferred from Occidental College and John F.
Kennedy transferred from another Ivy, Princeton, where he had been class of
1939. John Adams was the first president to graduate from college, graduating
from Harvard in 1755.

President | School(s) | Graduation year  
---|---|---  
John Adams | Harvard University | 1755  
James Madison | Princeton University | 1771  
John Quincy Adams | Harvard University | 1787  
William Henry Harrison | University of Pennsylvania | (withdrew)  
Rutherford B. Hayes | Harvard Law School | 1845  
Theodore Roosevelt | Harvard University  
Columbia Law School | 1880  
(withdrew) (Awarded J.D. in 2008, class of 1882)[95]  
William Howard Taft | Yale University | 1878  
Woodrow Wilson | Princeton University | 1879  
Franklin D. Roosevelt | Harvard University  
Columbia Law School | 1903  
(withdrew) (Awarded J.D. in 2008, class of 1907)[96]  
John F. Kennedy | Princeton University  
Harvard University | (withdrew)  
1940  
Gerald Ford | Yale Law School | 1941  
George H. W. Bush | Yale University | 1948  
Bill Clinton | Yale Law School | 1973  
George W. Bush | Yale University  
Harvard Business School | 1968  
1975  
Barack Obama | Columbia University  
Harvard Law School | 1983  
1991  
Donald Trump | University of Pennsylvania | 1968  
  
## Student demographics

Racial and/or ethnic background (2011)[97] | Asian | Black | Hispanic  
(of any race) | Non-Hispanic White | Other/  
international | Unknown  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Brown** |  14% | 6% | 10% | 45% | 14% | 11%  
**Columbia** |  15% | 8% | 13% | 41% | 17% | 6%  
**Cornell** |  17% | 6% | 10% | 46% | 13% | 10%  
**Dartmouth** |  14% | 8% | 9% | 48% | 13% | 8%  
**Harvard** |  12% | 7% | 9% | 45% | 22% | 6%  
**Penn** |  19% | 7% | 8% | 46% | 13% | 7%  
**Princeton** |  18% | 7% | 8% | 49% | 15% | 3%  
**Yale** |  15% | 6% | 8% | 58% | 5% | 8%  
**United States**[98] | **5%** | **13%** | **17%** | **63%** | **4%** | **NA**  
  
###  Geographic distribution

Students of the Ivy League largely hail from the Northeast, largely from the
New York City, Boston, and Philadelphia areas. As all eight Ivy League
universities are within the Northeast, it is no surprise that most graduates
end up working and residing in the Northeast after graduation. An unscientific
survey of Harvard seniors from the Class of 2013 found that 42% hailed from
the Northeast and 55% overall were planning on working and residing in the
Northeast.[99] Boston and New York City are traditionally where many Ivy
League graduates end up living.[100][101][102][103]

### Socioeconomics and social class

Harvard Law School students circa 1895

Students of the Ivy League, both graduate and undergraduate, come primarily
from upper middle and upper class families. In recent years, however, the
universities have looked towards increasing socioeconomic and class diversity,
by providing greater financial aid packages to applicants from lower, working,
and middle class American families.[86][104]

In 2013, 46% of Harvard undergraduate students came from families in the top
3.8% of all American households (i.e., over $200,000 annual income).[104] In
2012, the bottom 25% of the American income distribution accounted for only
3–4% of students at Brown, a figure that had remained unchanged since
1992.[105] In 2014, 69% of incoming freshmen students at Yale College came
from families with annual incomes of over $120,000, putting most Yale College
students in the upper middle and/or upper class. (The median household income
in the U.S. in 2013 was $52,700.)[106]

In the 2011–2012 academic year, students qualifying for Pell Grants (federally
funded scholarships on the basis of need) comprised 20% at Harvard, 18% at
Cornell, 17% at Penn, 16% at Columbia, 15% at Dartmouth and Brown, 14% at
Yale, and 12% at Princeton. Nationally, 35% of American university students
qualify for a Pell Grant.[107]

## Competition and athletics

Cornell plays Brown at Cornell's Homecoming game, October 2017.

The Yale Bowl in 2001 during the annual football game played between Harvard
and Yale

Ivy champions are recognized in sixteen men's and sixteen women's sports. In
some sports, Ivy teams actually compete as members of another league, the Ivy
championship being decided by isolating the members' records in play against
each other; for example, the six league members who participate in ice hockey
do so as members of ECAC Hockey, but an Ivy champion is extrapolated each
year. The Ivy League was the last Division I basketball conference to
institute a conference postseason tournament; the first tournaments for men
and women were held at the end of the 2016–17 season. The tournaments only
award the Ivy League automatic bids for the NCAA Division I Men's and Women's
Basketball Tournaments; the official conference championships continue to be
awarded based solely on regular-season results.[108] Before the 2016–17
season, the automatic bids were based solely on regular-season record, with a
one-game playoff (or series of one-game playoffs if more than two teams were
tied) held to determine the automatic bid.[109] The Ivy League is one of only
two Division I conferences which award their official basketball championships
solely on regular-season results; the other is the Southeastern
Conference.[110][111] Since its inception, an Ivy League school has yet to win
either the men's or women's Division I NCAA Basketball Tournament.

On average, each Ivy school has more than 35 varsity teams. All eight are in
the top 20 for number of sports offered for both men and women among Division
I schools. Unlike most Division I athletic conferences, the Ivy League
prohibits the granting of athletic scholarships; all scholarships awarded are
need-based (financial aid).[112] In addition, the Ivies have a rigid policy
against redshirting, even for medical reasons; an athlete loses a year of
eligibility for every year enrolled at an Ivy institution.[113] Ivy League
teams' non-league games are often against the members of the Patriot League,
which have similar academic standards and athletic scholarship policies
(although unlike the Ivies, the Patriot League allows redshirting).

In the time before recruiting for college sports became dominated by those
offering athletic scholarships and lowered academic standards for athletes,
the Ivy League was successful in many sports relative to other universities in
the country. In particular, Princeton won 26 recognized national championships
in college football (last in 1935), and Yale won 18 (last in 1927).[114] Both
of these totals are considerably higher than those of other historically
strong programs such as Alabama, which has won 15, Notre Dame, which claims 11
but is credited by many sources with 13, and USC, which has won 11. Yale,
whose coach Walter Camp was the "Father of American Football," held on to its
place as the all-time wins leader in college football throughout the entire
20th century, but was finally passed by Michigan on November 10, 2001.
Harvard, Yale, Princeton and Penn each have over a dozen former scholar-
athletes enshrined in the College Football Hall of Fame. Currently Dartmouth
holds the record for most Ivy League football titles, with 18, followed
closely by Harvard and Penn, each with 17 titles. In addition, the Ivy League
has produced Super Bowl winners Kevin Boothe (Cornell), two-time Pro Bowler
Zak DeOssie (Brown), Sean Morey (Brown), All-Pro selection Matt Birk
(Harvard), Calvin Hill (Yale), Derrick Harmon (Cornell) and 1999 "Mr.
Irrelevant" Jim Finn (Penn).

Beginning with the 1982 football season, the Ivy League has competed in
Division I-AA (renamed FCS in 2006).[115] The Ivy League teams are eligible
for the FCS tournament held to determine the national champion, and the league
champion is eligible for an automatic bid (and any other team may qualify for
an at-large selection) from the NCAA. However, the Ivy League has not played
any postseason games at all since 1956 due to the league's concerns about the
extended December schedule's effects on academics. For this reason, any Ivy
League team invited to the FCS playoffs turns down the bid. The Ivy League
plays a strict 10-game schedule, compared to other FCS members' schedules of
11 (or, in some seasons, 12) regular season games, plus post-season, which was
most recently expanded in 2013 to five rounds with 24 teams, with a bye week
for the top eight teams. Football is the only sport in which the Ivy League
declines to compete for a national title.

In addition to varsity football, Penn, Princeton and Cornell also field teams
in the eight-team Collegiate Sprint Football League, in which all players must
weigh 172 pounds or less. Penn and Princeton are the last remaining founding
members of the league from its 1934 debut, and Cornell is the next-oldest,
joining in 1937. Yale and Columbia previously fielded teams in the league but
no longer do so.

### Teams

**Teams in Ivy League competition**[116] Sport | Men's | Women's  
---|---|---  
Baseball |  8 |  -  
Basketball |  8 |  8  
Cross-country |  8 |  8  
Fencing |  6 |  7  
Field hockey |  - |  8  
Football |  8 |  -  
Golf |  8 |  7  
Ice hockey |  6 |  6  
Lacrosse |  7 |  8  
Rowing |  7 |  7  
Soccer |  8 |  8  
Softball |  - |  8  
Swimming and diving |  7 |  8  
Squash |  8 |  8  
Tennis |  8 |  8  
Track and field (indoor) |  8 |  8  
Track and field (outdoor) |  8 |  8  
Volleyball |  - |  8  
Wrestling |  6 |  -  
  
The Ivy League is home to some of the oldest college rugby teams in the United
States. Although these teams are not "varsity" sports, they compete annually
in the Ivy Rugby Conference.

### Historical results

Total championships won (1956–2017) Institution | Ivy League  
Championships | NCAA Team  
Championships  
---|---|---  
Princeton University Tigers | 476 | 12  
Harvard University Crimson | 415 | 4  
Cornell University Big Red | 231 | 5  
University of Pennsylvania Quakers | 210 | 3  
Yale University Bulldogs | 202 | 3  
Dartmouth College Big Green | 140 | 3  
Brown University Bears | 123 | 7  
Columbia University Lions | 105 | 11  
  
The table above includes the number of team championships won from the
beginning of official Ivy League competition (1956–57 academic year) through
2016-17. Princeton and Harvard have on occasion won ten or more Ivy League
titles in a year, an achievement accomplished 10 times by Harvard and 24 times
by Princeton, including a conference-record 15 championships in 2010–11. Only
once has one of the other six schools earned more than eight titles in a
single academic year (Cornell with nine in 2005–06). In the 38 academic years
beginning 1979–80, Princeton has averaged 10 championships per year, one-third
of the conference total of 33 sponsored sports.[117]

In the 12 academic years beginning 2005–06 Princeton has won championships in
31 different sports, all except wrestling and men's tennis.[118]

### Rivalries

Built in 1927, Penn's Palestra is shown around 2006

Performance of a Greek play at Harvard Stadium in 1903

Rivalries run deep in the Ivy League. For instance, Princeton and Penn are
longstanding men's basketball rivals;[119] "Puck Frinceton" and "Pennetrate
the Puss" T-shirts are worn by Quaker fans at games.[120] In only 11 instances
in the history of Ivy League basketball, and in only seven seasons since
Yale's 1962 title, has neither Penn nor Princeton won at least a share of the
Ivy League title in basketball,[121] with Princeton champion or co-champion 26
times and Penn 25 times. Penn has won 21 outright, Princeton 19 outright.
Princeton has been a co-champion 7 times, sharing 4 of those titles with Penn
(these 4 seasons represent the only times Penn has been co-champion). Harvard
won its first title of either variety in 2011, losing a dramatic play-off game
to Princeton for the NCAA tournament bid, then rebounded to win outright
championships in 2012, 2013, and 2014.

Rivalries exist between other Ivy league teams in other sports, including
Cornell and Harvard in hockey, Harvard and Princeton in swimming, and Harvard
and Penn in football (Penn and Harvard have won 28 Ivy League Football
Championships since 1982, Penn-16; Harvard-12). During that time Penn has had
8 undefeated Ivy League Football Championships and Harvard has had 6
undefeated Ivy League Football Championships.[122] In men's lacrosse, Cornell
and Princeton are perennial rivals, and they are the only two Ivy League teams
to have won the NCAA tournament. In 2009, the Big Red and Tigers met for their
70th game in the NCAA tournament.[123] No team other than Harvard or Princeton
has won the men's swimming conference title outright since 1972, although
Yale, Columbia, and Cornell have shared the title with Harvard and Princeton
during this time. Similarly, no program other than Princeton and Harvard has
won the women's swimming championship since Brown's 1999 title. Princeton or
Cornell has won every indoor and outdoor track and field championship, both
men's and women's, every year since 2002–03, with one exception (Columbia
women won indoor championship in 2012). Harvard and Yale are football and crew
rivals although the competition has become unbalanced; Harvard has won all but
one of the last 15 football games and all but one of the last 13 crew races.

#### Intra-conference football rivalries

Teams | Name | Trophy | First met | Games played | Series record  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Columbia-Cornell | Empire State Bowl | Empire Cup | 1889 | 103 games | 36–64–3  
Cornell-Penn | None | Trustee's Cup | 1893 | 122 games | 46–71–5  
Dartmouth-Princeton | None | Sawhorse Dollar | 1897 | 95 games | 48–43–4  
Harvard-Yale | The Game | None | 1875 | 132 games | 59–65–8  
Princeton-Yale | None | None | 1873 | 138 games | 52–76–10  
  
The Yale-Princeton series is the nation's second longest, exceeded only by
"The Rivalry" between Lehigh and Lafayette, which began later in 1884 but
included two or three games in each of 17 early seasons.[124] For the first
three decades of the Yale-Princeton rivalry, the two played their season-
ending game at a neutral site, usually New York City, and with one exception
(1890: Harvard), the winner of the game also won at least a share of the
national championship that year, covering the period 1869 through
1903.[125][126] This phenomenon of a finale contest at a neutral site for the
national title created a social occasion for the society elite of the
metropolitan area akin to a Super Bowl in the era prior to the establishment
of the NFL in 1920.[127][128] These football games were also financially
profitable for the two universities, so much that they began to play baseball
games in New York City as well, drawing record crowds for that sport also,
largely from the same social demographic.[129] In a period when the only
professional sports were fledgling baseball leagues, these high-profile early
contests between Princeton and Yale played a role in popularizing spectator
sports, demonstrating their financial potential and raising public awareness
of Ivy universities at a time when few people attended college.

#### Extra-conference football rivalries

Teams | Name | Trophy | First met | Games played | Series record  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Brown-Rhode Island | None | Governor's Cup | 1909 | 98 games | 70–26–2  
Columbia-Fordham | None | Liberty Cup | 1890 | 22 games | 12–10–0  
Cornell-Colgate | None | None | 1896 | 95 games | 48–44–3  
Dartmouth-New Hampshire | Granite Bowl | Granite Bowl Trophy | 1901 | 37 games
| 17–18–2  
Harvard-Holy Cross | None | None | 1904 | 67 games | 41–24–2  
Penn-Lafayette | None | None | 1882 | 90 games | 63–23–4  
Penn-Lehigh | None | None | 1885 | 56 games | 43-13  
Princeton-Rutgers | None | None | 1869 | 71 games | 53–17–1  
Yale-Army | None | None | 1893 | 45 games | 22–16–8  
  
## Championships

### NCAA team championships

This list, which is current through July 1, 2015,[130] includes NCAA
championships and women's AIAW championships (one each for Yale and
Dartmouth). Excluded from this list are all other national championships
earned outside the scope of NCAA competition, including football titles and
retroactive Helms Foundation titles.

School | Total | Men | Women | Co-ed | Nickname  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Yale University | 29[a] | 26 | 3 | 0 | Bulldogs  
Princeton University | 24[a] | 19 | 4 | 1 | Tigers  
Columbia University | 14 | 11 | 0 | 3 | Lions  
Harvard University | 10[a] | 7 | 2 | 1 | Crimson  
Brown University | 7 | 0 | 7 | 0 | Bears  
Cornell University | 5 | 5 | 0 | 0 | Big Red  
Dartmouth College | 5[a] | 1 | 1 | 3 | Big Green  
University of Pennsylvania | 4 | 3 | 1 | 0 | Quakers  
  
  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ The NCAA started sponsoring the intercollegiate golf championship in 1939, but it retained the titles from the 41 championships previously conferred by the National Intercollegiate Golf Association in its records. Of these pre-NCAA titles, Yale, Princeton, Harvard and Dartmouth won 20, 11, 6 and 1, respectively.

See also: List of NCAA schools with the most NCAA Division I championships and
List of NCAA schools with the most Division I national championships

## Athletic facilities

| Football stadium | Basketball arena | Baseball field | Hockey rink | Soccer
stadium  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
School[131] | Name | Capacity | Year | Name | Capacity | Year | Name |
Capacity | Year | Name | Capacity | Year | Name | Capacity | Year  
**Brown** | Brown Stadium |  7004200000000000000♠20,000 | 1925 | Pizzitola
Sports Center | 7003280000000000000♠2,800 | 1989 | Murray Stadium |
7003100000000000000♠1,000 | 1959 | Meehan Auditorium |
7003310000000000000♠3,100 | 1961 | Stevenson Field | 7003350000000000000♠3,500
| 1979  
**Columbia** | Wien Stadium |  7004170000000000000♠17,000 | 1984 | Levien
Gymnasium | 7003340800000000000♠3,408 | 1974 | Hal Robertson Field at Phillip
Satow Stadium | N/A | N/A | _Non-hockey school_ | Commisso Soccer Stadium |
7003350000000000000♠3,500 | 1985  
**Cornell** | Schoellkopf Field |  7004255970000000000♠25,597 | 1915 | Newman
Arena | 7003447200000000000♠4,472 | 1990 | Hoy Field | 7002500000000000000♠500
| 1922 | Lynah Rink | 7003426700000000000♠4,267 | 1957 | Charles F. Berman
Field | 7003100000000000000♠1,000 | 2000  
**Dartmouth** | Memorial Field |  7004156000000000000♠15,600 | 1923 | Leede
Arena | 7003210000000000000♠2,100 | 1986 | Red Rolfe Field at Biondi Park |
7003200000000000000♠2,000 | N/A | Thompson Arena | 7003450000000000000♠4,500 |
1975 | Burnham Field | 7003160000000000000♠1,600 | 2007  
**Harvard** | Harvard Stadium |  7004308980000000000♠30,898 | 1903 | Lavietes
Pavilion | 7003219500000000000♠2,195 | 1926 | Joseph J. O'Donnell Field |
7003160000000000000♠1,600 | 1898 | Bright Hockey Center |
7003285000000000000♠2,850 | 1956 | Soldiers Field Soccer Stadium |
7003250000000000000♠2,500 | 2010  
**Penn** | Franklin Field |  7004525930000000000♠52,593 | 1895 | The Palestra
| 7003872200000000000♠8,722 | 1927 | Meiklejohn Stadium |
7002850000000000000♠850 | 2000 | _Non-hockey school_ | Rhodes Field |
7003170000000000000♠1,700 | 2002[132]  
**Princeton** | Princeton University Stadium |  7004278000000000000♠27,800 |
1998 | Jadwin Gymnasium | 7003685400000000000♠6,854 | 1969 | Bill Clarke Field
| N/A | 1961 | Hobey Baker Memorial Rink | 7003209400000000000♠2,094 | 1923 |
Roberts Stadium | 7003300000000000000♠3,000 | 2008  
**Yale** | Yale Bowl |  7004614460000000000♠61,446 | 1914 | Payne Whitney
Gymnasium | 7003310000000000000♠3,100 | 1932 | Yale Field |
7003620000000000000♠6,200 | 1927 | Ingalls Rink | 7003348600000000000♠3,486 |
1958 | Reese Stadium | 7003300000000000000♠3,000 | 1981  
  
## Other Ivies

The term _Ivy_ is often used to connote a positive comparison to or
association with the Ivy League, often along academic lines. The term has been
used to describe the Little Ivies, a grouping of small liberal arts colleges
in the Northeastern United States.[133] Other uses include the Southern Ivies,
Hidden Ivies, and the Public Ivies. The 2007 edition of _Newsweek's How to Get
Into College Now_ , the editors designated 25 schools as "New Ivies".[134]

### Ivy Plus

The term _Ivy Plus_ is sometimes used to refer to the Ancient Eight plus
several other schools for purposes of alumni associations,[135][136]
university affiliations,[136][137][138][139] or endowment
comparisons.[140][141][142][143] In his book _Untangling the Ivy League_ ,
Zawel writes, "The inclusion of non–Ivy League schools under this term is
commonplace for some schools and extremely rare for others. Among these other
schools, Massachusetts Institute of Technology and Stanford University are
almost always included. The University of Chicago and Duke University are
often included as well."[136] In their 2015 book _Acing Admissions_ , Mehta
and Dixit write, "The [ _Ivy Plus_ schools] include, but are not limited to:
Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), Stanford University and
Northwestern University. Besides selectivity, these Ivy Plus colleges are
thought to share similar values around academic and professional excellence,
intellectual curiosity, leadership and civil engagement."[144]

##  See also

  * University portal

  * Little Ivies—a grouping of small liberal arts colleges in the Northeastern United States.
  * Seven Sisters—seven liberal arts colleges all previously open to only enrollment by women considered the Ivy League of female-only colleges
  * Little Three—three private liberal arts colleges in Massachusetts and Connecticut (Amherst, Wesleyan, and Williams), in contrast to the Big Three (a term used to refer to Harvard, Yale, and Princeton) of the Ivy League.
  * Colby-Bates-Bowdoin Consortium—three private liberal arts colleges in Maine (Bates, Bowdoin and Colby) known as the Maine Big Three contrasting also with the Ivy League's Big Three.
  * List of Ivy League medical schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer medical education (both MDs and PhDs).
  * List of Ivy League law schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer various law degrees.
  * List of Ivy League business schools—schools of the Ivy League universities that offer various business degrees, especially the MBA.
  * _Hidden Ivies: Thirty Colleges of Excellence_ —complementary use of _Ivy_ to characterize schools in the United States that showcase academic excellence.
  * Jesuit Ivy—complementary use of _Ivy_ to characterize Boston College.
  * Black Ivy League—informal list of private historically black colleges that attracted a high number of top African American students.
  * SKY (universities) A group of most prestigious Korean universities

##  Notes

  1. **^** "Executive Director Robin Harris". Retrieved  2016-04-01. 
  2. **^** "Princeton Campus Guide – Ivy League". Retrieved  2007-04-26. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Ivy League History and Timeline". Archived from the original on 2016-04-20. Retrieved  2015-11-13. 
  4. **^** "World's Best Colleges". Retrieved  2009-07-03. 
  5. **^** "National University Rankings". U.S. News & World Report. Archived from the original on 2011-05-21. Retrieved  2013-09-11. 
  6. **^** Dartmouth and Cornell respectively
  7. **^** National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO), "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year 2013 Endowment Market Value" (published Jan. 28, 2014 at http://www.nacubo.org)
  8. **^** "10 Private Universities With Largest Financial Endowments". Retrieved  2012-01-09. 
  9. **^** Fitzpatrick, Dan (2014-09-23). "Harvard Endowment Earns 15.4% Return for Fiscal 2014". _The Wall Street Journal_.  
  10. **^** Michael McDonald, "Brown Posts 16.1 Percent Investment Gain in Year Ended June 30," Bloomberg.com/news, Oct. 1, 2014 (bloomberg.com/news/2014-10-01/brown-posts-16-1-investment-gain-in-year-ended-june-30.html)
  11. **^** "Faculty & Employees". Brown University. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  12. **^** Christian Zhang, "University announces 17.5 percent return on endowment in 2014," _Columbia Daily Spectator_ , Oct. 1, 2014 (columbiaspectator.com/news/2014/10/01/university-announces-175-percent-return-endowment-2014)
  13. **^** http://www.columbia.edu/cu/opir/abstract/opir_faculty_history_1.htm
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Peter Jacobs, "How All the Ivy League Endowments Performed," _Business Insider_ , Oct. 22, 2014 (businessinsider.com/ivy-league-university-endowments-fiscal-year-2014-returns-2014-10)
  15. **^** "College endowment valued at $4.5 billion," _The Dartmouth_ , Sept. 16, 2014 (thedartmouth.com/2014/09/16/news/college-endowment-valued-at-4-5-billio)
  16. **^** Michael McDonald, "Harvard’s 15.4% Gain Trails as Mendillo Successor Sought," Bloomberg.com/news, Sept. 24, 2014 (bloomberg.com/news/2014-09-23/harvard-has-15-4-investment-gain-trailing-dartmouth-penn-1-.html)
  17. **^** "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2012-04-25. Retrieved 2014-02-15. 
  18. **^** Michael McDonald, "University of Pennsylvania Posts 17.5% Investment Return," Bloomberg.com/news, Sept. 18, 2014 (bloomberg.com/news/2014-09-18/university-of-pennsylvania-posts-17-5-investment-return-1-.html)
  19. **^** "Penn: Penn Facts". The University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  20. **^** Adrian Rodrigues, "Yale endowment rises to all-time high," _Yale Daily News_ , Sept. 25, 2014 (yaledailynews.com/blog/2014/09/25/yale-endowment-rises-to-all-time-high)
  21. **^** "About – Facts". Yale University. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  22. **^** The institution, though founded in 1636, did not receive its name until 1639. It was nameless for its first two years
  23. **^** See University of Pennsylvania for details of the circumstances of Penn's origin. Penn considered its founding date to be 1749 for over a century.[1] In 1895, elite universities in the United States agreed that henceforth formal academic processions would place visiting dignitaries and other officials in the order of their institution's founding dates. Penn's periodical "The Alumni Register," published by the General Alumni Society, then began a grassroots campaign to retroactively revise the university's founding date to 1740, in order to appear older than Princeton University, which had been chartered in 1746. In 1899, the Board of Trustees acceded to the alumni initiative and voted to change the founding date to 1740. The rationale offered in 1899 was that, in 1750, founder Benjamin Franklin and his original board of trustees purchased a completed but unused building and assumed an unnamed trust from a group which had hoped to begin a church and charity school in Philadelphia. This edifice was commonly called the "New Building" by local citizens and was referred to by such name in Franklin's memoirs as well as the legal bill of sale in Penn's archives. No name is stated or known for the associated educational trust, hence "Unnamed Charity School" serves as a placeholder to refer to the trust which is the premise for Penn's association with a founding date of 1740. The first named entity in Penn's early history was the 1751 secondary school for boys and charity school for indigent children called "Academy and Charitable School in the Province of Pennsylvania."[2] Undergraduate education began in 1755 and the organization then changed its name to "College, Academy and Charity School of Philadelphia in Pennsylvania."[3] Operation of the charity school was discontinued a few years later.
  24. **^** Penn's website, like other sources, makes an important point of Penn's heritage being nonsectarian, associated with Benjamin Franklin and the Academy of Philadelphia's nonsectarian board of trustees: "The goal of Franklin's nonsectarian, practical plan would be the education of a business and governing class rather than of clergymen."[4]. Jencks and Riesman (2001) write "The Anglicans who founded the University of Pennsylvania, however, were evidently anxious not to alienate Philadelphia's Quakers, and they made their new college officially nonsectarian." In Franklin's 1749 founding Proposals relating to the education of youth in Pensilvania (page images) Archived 2007-10-18 at the Wayback Machine., religion is not mentioned directly as a subject of study, but he states in a footnote that the study of " _History_ will also afford frequent Opportunities of showing the Necessity of a _Publick Religion,_ from its Usefulness to the Publicks; the Advantage of a Religious Character among private Persons; the Mischiefs of Superstition,  &c. and the Excellency of the CHRISTIAN RELIGION above all others antient or modern." Starting in 1751, the same trustees also operated a Charity School for Boys, whose curriculum combined "general principles of Christianity" with practical instruction leading toward careers in business and the "mechanical arts." [5], and thus might be described as "non-denominational Christian." The charity school was originally planned and a trust was organized on paper in 1740 by followers of travelling evangelist George Whitefield. The school was to have operated inside a church supported by the same group of adherents. But the organizers ran short of financing and, although the frame of the building was raised, the interior was left unfinished. The founders of the Academy of Philadelphia purchased the unused building in 1750 for their new venture and, in the process, assumed the original trust. Since 1899, Penn has claimed a founding date of 1740, based on the organizational date of the charity school and the premise that it had institutional identity with the Academy of Philadelphia. Whitefield was a firebrand Methodist associated with The Great Awakening; since the Methodists did not formally break from the Church of England until 1784, Whitefield in 1740 would be labelled Episcopalian, and in fact _Brown_ University, emphasizing its own pioneering nonsectarianism, refers to Penn's origin as "Episcopalian".[6] Penn is sometimes assumed to have Quaker ties (its athletic teams are called "Quakers," and the cross-registration alliance between Penn, Haverford, Swarthmore and Bryn Mawr is known as the "Quaker Consortium.") But Penn's website does not assert any formal affiliation with Quakerism, historic or otherwise, and Haverford College implicitly asserts a non-Quaker origin for Penn when it states that "Founded in 1833, Haverford is the oldest institution of higher learning with Quaker roots in North America.""Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2012-02-04. Retrieved  2012-02-19. 
  25. **^** "Protestant Episcopal Church – LoveToKnow 1911". 1911encyclopedia.org. 2006-10-06. Archived from the original on 2010-12-29. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  26. **^** "Brown Admission: Our History". Brown.edu. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "University Chapel: Orange Key Virtual Tour of Princeton University". Princeton University.  
  28. **^** Brown's website characterizes it as "the Baptist answer to Congregationalist Yale and Harvard; Presbyterian Princeton; and Episcopalian Penn and Columbia," but adds that at the time it was "the only one that welcomed students of all religious persuasions."[7] Brown's charter stated that "into this liberal and catholic institution shall never be admitted any religious tests, but on the contrary, all the members hereof shall forever enjoy full, free, absolute, and uninterrupted liberty of conscience." The charter called for twenty-two of the thirty-six trustees to be Baptists, but required that the remainder be "five Friends, four Congregationalists, and five Episcopalians."[8]
  29. **^** Hughes, Samuel (2002). "Whiskey, Loose Women, and Fig Leaves: The University's seal has a curious history". _Pennsylvania Gazette_. **100** (3).  
  30. **^** "Class Day, New and Old".  
  31. **^** "Penn: Ivy day and Ivy Stones, a Penn Tradition".  
  32. **^** Boston Daily Globe, Jun 27, 1882, p. 4: "CLASS DAY.: Yale Seniors Plant the Ivy, Sing "Blage," and Entertain the Beauty of New Haven;"
  33. **^** Boston Evening Transcript, Jun 11, 1912, p. 12, "Simmons Seniors Hosts Class Day Exercises Late in Afternoon, Planting of the Ivy will be One of the Features;
  34. **^** "Play a Romance and Plant Ivy, Pretty Class Day Exercises of the Women's College". _The Gazette Times_. June 9, 1907. Retrieved  October 22, 2012. 
  35. **^** "The Ivy Club: History". Archived from the original on 2011-10-14.  
  36. **^** "Yale Book of Quotations" (2006) Yale University Press edited by Fred R. Shapiro
  37. **^** "The Yale Book of Quotations" (2006) Yale University Press, edited by Fred R. Shapiro
  38. **^** Oxford English Dictionary entry for "Ivy League"
  39. **^** The Chicago Public Library reports the "IV League" explanation, [9] sourced only from the _Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins_. [ _dead link_ ]
  40. **^** Various _Ask Ezra_ student columns report the "IV League" explanation, apparently relying on the _Morris Dictionary of Word and Phrase Origins_ as the sole source: [10] [11] [12]
  41. **^** "The Penn Current / October 17, 2002 / Ask Benny". Upenn.edu. Archived from the original on June 6, 2010. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  42. **^** "This according to the Penn history of varsity football". Archives.upenn.edu. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  43. **^** "Resource: Student history". Resource.berkeley.edu. Archived from the original on 2010-09-09. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  44. **^** Epstein, Joseph (2003). _Snobbery: The American Version_. Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 0-618-34073-4.   p. 55, "by WASP Baltzell meant something much more specific; he intended to cover a select group of people who passed through a congeries of elite American institutions: certain eastern prep schools, the Ivy League colleges, and the Episcopal Church among them."
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Auchincloss, Louis (2004). _East Side Story_. Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 0-618-45244-3.   p. 179, "he dreaded the aridity of snobbery which he knew infected the Ivy League colleges"
  46. **^** McDonald, Janet (2000). _Project Girl_. University of California Press. ISBN 0-520-22345-4.   p. 163 " _Newsweek_ is a morass of incest, nepotism, elitism, racism and utter classic white male patriarchal corruption.... It is completely Ivy League — a Vassar/Columbia J-School dumping ground... I will always be excluded, regardless of how many Ivy League degrees I acquire, because of the next level of hurdles: family connections and money."
  47. **^** scandals: James Axtell, _The Making of Princeton University_ (2006), p.274; quoting a former executive director of the Ivy League
  48. **^** Robert Siegel, "Black Baseball Pioneer William White's 1879 Game," National Public Radio, broadcast Jan. 30, 2004 (audio at npr.org); Stefan Fatsis, "Mystery of Baseball: Was William White Game's First Black?", _Wall Street Journal_ , Jan. 30, 2004; Peter Morris and Stefan Fatsis, "Baseball's Secret Pioneer: William Edward White, the first black player in major-league history," _Slate_ , Feb. 4, 2014; "Bill White (whitebi01)", _Baseball-Reference.com_ ; Rick Harris, _Brown University Baseball: A Legacy of the game_ (Charleston: The History Press, 2012), pp. 41–43
  49. **^** "Columbia Celebrates College Wrestling Centennial". Columbia College Today.  
  50. **^** "Colleges Searching for Check On Trend to Goal Post Riots". _The New York Times_. Associated Press. 1935-12-06. p.  33. 
  51. **^** Robert F. Kelley (1936-01-17). "Cornell Club Here Welcomes Lynah". _The New York Times_. p.  22. 
  52. **^** "Immediate Formation of Ivy League Advocated at Seven Eastern Colleges". _The New York Times_. 1936-12-03. p.  33. 
  53. **^** "The Harvard Crimson :: News :: AN EDITORIAL". Thecrimson.com. 1936-12-03. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  54. **^** "Plea for an Ivy Football League Rejected by College Authorities". _The New York Times_. 1937-01-12. p.  26. 
  55. **^** Gwertzman, Bernard M. (October 13, 1956). "Ivy League: Formalizing the Fact". _The Harvard Crimson_. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  56. **^** “Ivy Group” Archived 2015-01-18 at the Wayback Machine., _Sports-reference.com_
  57. **^** “Division I Conference Alignment History” in the _2009 NCAA Men’s Basketball Record Book_ , p. 221, http://www.ncaapublications.com/productdownloads/BK09.pdf
  58. **^** "Archived: Women's Colleges in the United States: History, Issues, and Challenges". Ed.gov. Archived from the original on 2005-02-04. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  59. **^** White, Gordon S. Jr. (1982-01-10). "Ivy League Considers Adding 2 Schools". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  18 September 2013. 
  60. **^** Nick Anderson, "Ivy League admission rate: 8-point-something-something-percent", _The Washington Post_ March 28, 2014. Local references for the schools' statistics are footnoted at their entries
  61. **^** Jillian Lanney, "Brown admits record-low 8.6 percent", _The Brown Daily Herald_ , March 31, 2014; sourcing admissions dean Jim Miller: 30,432 applied, 2,619 admitted, 8.61 percent
  62. **^** Samantha Cooney, "CC and SEAS admission decisions mailed this afternoon, 6.94 percent of applicants admitted", spectrum.columbiaspectator.com, March 27, 2014; sourcing admissions dean Jessica Marinaccio: 32,952 applied, 2,291 admitted, 6.953 percent. *Nick Anderson, _op cit_ , used an applied number of 32,967, giving 6.949 percent
  63. **^** Annie Bui, "Cornell Admits Most Selective Class in University History", _Cornell Daily Sun_ , March 28, 2014; sourcing associate vice provost for enrollment Jason C. Locke: 43,041 applied, 6,014 admitted, 13.97 percent
  64. **^** Zac Hardwick, "College accepts 11.5 percent of applicants", _The Dartmouth_ , March 28, 2014; sourcing admissions dean Maria Laskaris: 19,296 applied, 2,220 admitted, 11.50 percent
  65. **^** Theodore R. Delwiche, "Harvard Makes Admissions Offers to 5.9 Percent of Applicants to the Class f 2018", _The Harvard Crimson_ , March 27, 2014; sourcing admissions dean William R. Fitzsimmons: 34,295 applied, 2,023 admitted, 5.899 percent
  66. **^** Fiona Glisson, "Admission numbers released: The class of 2018 is the most competitive in Penn's history", _The Daily Pennsylvanian_ , March 27, 2014; sourcing admissions dean Eric Furda: 35,868 applied, 3,583 admitted, 9.99 percent. *The Penn news-release figure of 9.9 percent (rounded down from 9.99 percent) was disputed in the _Washington Post_ by higher education reporter Nick Anderson ("Ivy League admission rate: 8-point-something-something-percent", _The Washington Post_ March 28, 2014), who published a rounded-up percentage of 10.0, supported by rounded-up figures released by Cornell, Harvard, Princeton, and Yale; Anderson's article was discussed in Penn's CollegeConfidential.com forum "University of Pennsylvania Class of 2018 Waitlist"
  67. **^** Corinne Lowe, "Princeton offers admission to 7.28 percent of applicants", _The Daily Princetonian_ , March 27, 2014; sourcing admissions dean Janet Rapelye: 26,641 applied, 1,939 admitted, 7.28 percent
  68. **^** Rishabh Bhandari, "6.26 percent of applicants admitted to class of 2018", _Yale Daily News_ , March 27, 2014; sourcing admissions dean Jeremiah Quinlan: 30,932 applied, 1,935 admitted, 6.26 percent
  69. **^** Waldman, Peter (4 September 2014). "How to Get Into an Ivy League College—Guaranteed". _Bloomberg.com_.  
  70. **^** "National University Rankings". U.S.News & World Report LP. Archived from the original on 2011-05-21. Retrieved  2011-05-11. 
  71. **^** Annicchiarico, Francesca; Weinstock, Samuel Y. (3 September 2013). "Freshman Survey Part I: Meet Harvard's Class of 2017". _The Harvard Crimson_.  
  72. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2014". Academic Ranking of World Universities. Archived from the original on 2015-01-19.  
  73. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_.  
  74. **^** "National University Rankings – Top National Universities". U.S. News & World Report.  
  75. **^** "2014 National Universities Rankings". _Washington Monthly_. Archived from the original on 2014-08-28.  
  76. **^** "Nobel Laureates and Research Affiliations". _Nobelprize.org_.  
  77. **^** _Elements of Fashion and Apparel Design_. New Age Publishers. p.  25\. ISBN 81-224-1371-4. Ivy League: A popular look for men in the fifties that originated on such campuses as Harvard, Priceton [ _sic_ ] and Yale; a forerunner to the preppie look; a style characterized by button down collar shirts and pants with a small buckle in the back. 
  78. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Zlotnick, Sarah (February 24, 2012). "Your cheat sheet to preppy style". _The Washingtonian_.  
  79. **^** Peterson, Amy T.; Ann T. Kellogg (2008). _The Greenwood Encyclopedia of Clothing Through American History 1900 to the Present: 1900–1949_. ABC-CLIO. p.  285\. ISBN 9780313043345. 
  80. **^** "The Ultimate Guide to American Style". _Details_.  
  81. **^** Rapoport, Adam (31 March 2008). "The American Way". _GQ_.  
  82. **^** Epstein, Joseph (2003). _Snobbery: The American Version_. Houghton Mifflin. ISBN 0-618-34073-4.   p. 55, "by WASP Baltzell meant something much more specific; he intended to cover a select group of people who passed through a congeries of elite American institutions: certain eastern prep schools, the Ivy League colleges, and the Episcopal Church among them." and Wolff, Robert Paul (1992). _The Ideal of the University_. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 1-56000-603-X.   p. viii: "My genial, aristocratic contempt for Clark Kerr's celebration of the University of California was as much an expression of Ivy League snobbery as it was of radical social critique."
  83. **^** Greenblatt, Alan (19 September 2012). "The End Of WASP-Dominated Politics". _NPR.org_.  
  84. **^** Orlet, Christopher (23 August 2012). "Missing the WASPs". _The American Spectator_.  
  85. **^** Feldman, Noah (2010-06-27). "The Triumphant Decline of the WASP". _The New York Times_.  
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hayes, Robin J. (February 2014). "Why Ivy League Schools Are So Bad at Economic Diversity". _The Atlantic_.  
  87. **^** Time magazine, Noliwe M. Rooks, Feb. 27, 2013, The Biggest Barrier to Elite Education Isn’t Affordability. It’s Accessibility, Retrieved Aug. 27, 2014, "...accessibility of these schools to students who are poor, minority ... the weight that Ivy League and other highly selective schools...unfortunate set of circumstances ... gifted minority, poor and working class students can benefit most from the educational opportunities..."
  88. **^** August 26, 2014, Boston Globe (via NY Times), A Generation Later, Poor are Still Rare at Elite Colleges, Retrieved Aug. 30, 2014, "more elite group of 28 private colleges and universities, including all eight Ivy League members, ... from 2001 to 2009, ... enrollment of students from the bottom 40 percent of family incomes increased from just 10 percent to 11 percent...."
  89. **^** Wolff, Robert Paul (1992). _The Ideal of the University_. Transaction Publishers. ISBN 1-56000-603-X.   p. viii: "My genial, aristocratic contempt for Clark Kerr's celebration of the University of California was as much an expression of Ivy League snobbery as it was of radical social critique."
  90. **^** Williams, Mark (2001). _The 10 Lenses: your guide to living and working in a multicultural world_. Capital Books.  , p. 85
  91. **^** Kieran, John (December 4, 1936). "Sports of the Times — The Ivy League". _The New York Times_. p.  36. Retrieved May 30, 2017. There will now be a little test of 'the power of the press' in intercollegiate circles since the student editors at Harvard, Yale, Princeton, Cornell, Columbia, Dartmouth and Penn are coming out in a group for the formation of an Ivy League in football. The idea isn't new.... It would be well for the proponents of the Ivy League to make it clear (to themselves especially) that the proposed group would be inclusive but not 'exclusive' as this term is used with a slight up-tilting of the tip of the nose." He recommended the consideration of "plenty of institutions covered with home-grown ivy that are not included in the proposed group. [such as ] Army and Navy and Georgetown and Fordham and Syracuse and Brown and Pitt, just to offer a few examples that come to mind" and noted that "Pitt and Georgetown and Brown and Bowdoin and Rutgers were old when Cornell was shining new, and Fordham and Holy Cross had some building draped in ivy before the plaster was dry in the walls that now tower high about Cayuga's waters. 
  92. **^** Webster G. Tarpley; Anton Chaitkin. "George Bush: The Unauthorized Biography: Chapter XXII Bush Takes The Presidency". Webster G. Tarpley. Retrieved 2006-12-17. 
  93. **^** Dowd, Maureen (1998), "Bush Traces How Yale Differs From Harvard." _The New York Times,_ June 11, 1998, p. 10
  94. **^** Baker, Russell (1998), "The Ivy Hayseed." _The New York Times,_ June 15, 1988, p. A31
  95. **^** New York Sun, Presidents Roosevelt Honored With Posthumous Columbia Degrees, September 26, 2008
  96. **^** Columbia Law School, Theodore and Franklin Roosevelt to Receive Posthumous Law Degrees from Columbia Law School, September 25, 2008
  97. **^** "Ivy League Schools Don't Reflect U.S. Minority Ratios". _www.nationaljournal.com_. Archived from the original on 18 March 2015. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  98. **^** "USA QuickFacts from the US Census Bureau". U.S. Department of Commerce.  Missing or empty `|url=` (help); `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  99. **^** "The Harvard Crimson". The Harvard Crimson, Inc. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  100. **^** "Here's Where Ivy League Students Go When They Graduate [Presentation]". _Business Insider_. 29 June 2012. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  101. **^** "Why Do So Many Ivy League Grads Go to Wall Steet?". _The Atlantic_. 17 February 2012. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  102. **^** "The Ivy League in the Age of Obama". _The American Conservative_. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  103. **^** "The Best and the Greediest? Ivy League Students Are Still Heading to Wall Street". _Alternet_. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  104. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ McGrath, Maggie (November 27, 2013). "The Challenge Of Being Poor At America's Richest Colleges". _Forbes_.  
  105. **^** Nickens, Margaret; Nussenbaum, Kate (23 April 2012). "How diverse are we?". _The Brown Daily Herald_.  
  106. **^** Miele, Adriana (22 January 2014). "MIELE: Wanted, fewer dumb students". _Yale Daily News_.  
  107. **^** Zax, David. "Wanted: smart students from poor families". _Yale Alumni Magazine_.  
  108. **^** "The Ivy League Adds Men's, Women's Basketball Tournaments Beginning in 2017" (Press release). Ivy League. March 10, 2016. Retrieved  March 10, 2016. 
  109. **^** "Yale basketball shares Ivy League title". Yale Daily News. 2002-03-06. Archived from the original on 2013-02-09. Retrieved  2010-08-01. 
  110. **^** "Through the Years: SEC Champions" (PDF). _2015–2016 SEC Men's Basketball Media Guide_. Southeastern Conference. p.  61. Retrieved March 10, 2016. From 1933–50 the SEC Champion was determined by a tournament, except for 1935. Since 1951, when the round-robin schedule was introduced, the title has been decided by a winning percentage on the conference schedule. 
  111. **^** "Through the Years: SEC Champions" (PDF). _2015–2016 SEC Women's Basketball Media Guide_. Southeastern Conference. p.  54. Retrieved March 10, 2016. Since 1986, the SEC champion has been determined by the regular season schedule. 
  112. **^** "Timeline". The Ivy League. Archived from the original on 2016-04-20.  
  113. **^** Brown, C.L. (October 5, 2016). "Which players injured last season will make the strongest comebacks?". _ESPN.com_. Retrieved  October 8, 2016. It's easy to forget what Siyani Chambers has meant to Harvard as a three-time all-Ivy League player because he wasn't enrolled in school last season. The Ivy League doesn't allow redshirts, so Chambers was forced to withdraw after a preseason ACL injury if he wanted to return for his senior season. 
  114. **^** "Recognized National Championships by Year". College Football Data Warehouse. Archived from the original on 15 October 2016. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  115. **^** New York Times – 2006-11-17
  116. **^** "Ivy League". Council of Ivy League Presidents and The Ivy League. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  117. **^** "Ivy League Championships – By School". Council of Ivy League Presidents and The Ivy League. Retrieved  11 November 2017. 
  118. **^** "Ivy League Championships – Women's Sports". Council of Ivy League Presidents and The Ivy League. Retrieved  8 October 2014. 
  119. **^** "The game: the tables are turned – Penn hoops travel to Jadwin tonight for premier rivalry of Ivy League basketball". The Daily Princetonian. 2002-02-12. Archived from the original on 2007-10-11. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  120. **^** "The rivalry? Not with Penn's paltry performance this season". The Daily Princetonian. 2002-02-12. Archived from the original on 2007-10-11. Retrieved  2011-01-30. 
  121. **^** Ivy League Basketball Archived June 27, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  122. **^** Ivy League Football Archived January 2, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
  123. **^** New wrinkle in the Cornell Princeton lacrosse rivalry, _The Ithaca Journal_ , May 16, 2009.
  124. **^** "The Rivalry: Lehigh vs. Lafayette". _LehigSports.com_. Archived from the original on 21 April 2013. Retrieved  25 April 2013. 
  125. **^** Wallace, William N. (16 November 1997). "A Woeful Yale Loses To Princeton". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  25 April 2013. 
  126. **^** Hyland, Tim. "College Football National Champions: The Complete List". _About.com_. Retrieved  25 April 2013. 
  127. **^** Colman, Dan (23 February 2012). "Princeton v. Yale, 1903: The Oldest College Football Game on Film". _OpenCulture.com_. Retrieved  25 April 2013. 
  128. **^** "1903 College Football National Championship". _TipTop25.com_. Retrieved  25 April 2013. 
  129. **^** "Princeton Beats Yale". _The New York Times_. 19 June 1904. Retrieved  25 April 2013. 
  130. **^** http://fs.ncaa.org/Docs/stats/champs_records_book/Overall.pdf
  131. **^** "Ivy Facilities". Archived from the original on March 18, 2006. Retrieved  2006-06-10. 
  132. **^** "Rhodes Field – PennAthletics.com—The Official Website of University of Pennsylvania Athletics". Pennathletics.com. Archived from the original on 2012-02-08. Retrieved  2012-03-10. 
  133. **^** "NESCAC". _www.nescac.com_. Retrieved  2016-02-09. 
  134. **^** "America's 25 New Elite 'Ivies '". Newsweek.com. 2006-08-21. Retrieved 2011-01-30. 
  135. **^** Babbit, Nory (Fall 2005). "Yale Hosts Ivy Plus Conference". The Blue Print. Archived from the original on 2010-06-10. Retrieved 2009-03-25. 
  136. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Zawel, Marc (September 1, 2005). "Defining the Ivy League". _Untangling the Ivy League_. College Prowler. p.  9\. ISBN 1-59658-500-5. 
  137. **^** "Ivy Plus Sustainability Working Group". Yale. Archived from the original on 2008-01-01. Retrieved  2008-11-24. 
  138. **^** "ivy plus annual fund". harvard. Retrieved  2008-11-24. 
  139. **^** "Ivy + Alumni Relations Conference". Princeton. Archived from the original on 2009-01-26. Retrieved  2008-11-24. 
  140. **^** Weisman, Robert (November 2, 2007). "Risk pays off for endowments". The Boston Globe. Retrieved 2008-11-24. 
  141. **^** Perloff-Giles, Alexandra (March 11, 2008). "Columbia, MIT Fall Into Line on Aid". The Harvard Crimson. Retrieved 2008-11-24. 
  142. **^** Bianco, Anthony (November 29, 2007). "The Dangerous Wealth of the Ivy League". Businessweek. Retrieved 2009-03-24. 
  143. **^** Lerner, Josh; Antoinette Schoar; Jialan Wang (Summer 2008). "Secrets of the Academy: The Drivers of University Endowment Success". _Journal of Economic Perspectives_. Nashville, TN: The American Economic Association. **22** (3): 207–22. doi:10.1257/jep.22.3.207. ISSN 0895-3309. OCLC 16474127.  
  144. **^** Mehta, Kavita; Dixit, Kimberly Wright (July 1, 2015). "How to Choose a College". _Acing Admissions_. HarperCollins Publishers. p. 85\. ISBN 978-93-5106-794-8. Retrieved  December 31, 2016. 

## External links

  * Official website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Ivy League  
  
---  
  
  * Brown Bears
  * Columbia Lions
  * Cornell Big Red
  * Dartmouth Big Green
  * Harvard Crimson
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Penn Quakers
  * Yale Bulldogs

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Ivy League rivalries  
  
---  
Conference |

  * Brown–Penn
  * Brown–Princeton
  * Brown–Yale
  * Columbia–Cornell
  * Columbia–Harvard
  * Cornell–Dartmouth
  * Cornell–Harvard (hockey)
  * Cornell–Penn
  * Cornell–Princeton (lacrosse)
  * Dartmouth–Harvard
  * Dartmouth–Yale
  * Harvard–Penn
  * Harvard–Princeton
  * Harvard–Yale
    * games
  * Harvard–Yale (hockey)
  * Penn–Princeton
  * Penn–Princeton (basketball)
  * Penn–Yale
  * Princeton–Yale

  
  
Non-conference |

  * Brown–Rhode Island
  * Boston College–Harvard (basketball)
  * Colgate–Cornell
  * Cornell–Hobart
  * Dartmouth–New Hampshire
  * The Liberty Cup (Columbia–Fordham)
  * Battle of 33rd Street (Penn–Drexel)
  * Philadelphia Big 5 (Penn vs. La Salle, Saint Joseph's, Temple, and Villanova)
  * Beanpot (Harvard–Boston College–Boston University–Northeastern)
  * Princeton–Rutgers
  * Battle of Whitney Avenue (Quinnipiac–Yale)
  * Ocean State Cup (Brown–Bryant–Providence–Rhode Island)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

NCAA Division I FCS conferences  
  
---  
  
  * Big Sky Conference
  * Big South Conference
  * Colonial Athletic Association
  * Ivy League
  * Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference
  * Missouri Valley Football Conference
  * Northeast Conference
  * Ohio Valley Conference
  * Patriot League
  * Pioneer Football League
  * Southern Conference
  * Southland Conference
  * Southwestern Athletic Conference
  * Independents

  
  
NCAA Division I Football Championship  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

NCAA Division I basketball conferences  
  
---  
  
  * American Athletic Conference
  * America East Conference
  * Atlantic 10 Conference
  * Atlantic Coast Conference
  * Atlantic Sun Conference
  * Big 12 Conference
  * Big East Conference
  * Big Sky Conference
  * Big South Conference
  * Big Ten Conference
  * Big West Conference
  * Colonial Athletic Association
  * Conference USA
  * Horizon League
  * Ivy League
  * Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference
  * Mid-American Conference
  * Mid-Eastern Athletic Conference
  * Metro Atlantic Athletic Conference
  * Missouri Valley Conference
  * Mountain West Conference
  * Northeast Conference
  * Ohio Valley Conference
  * Pac-12 Conference
  * Patriot League
  * Southeastern Conference
  * Southern Conference
  * Southwestern Athletic Conference
  * The Summit League
  * Sun Belt Conference
  * West Coast Conference
  * Western Athletic Conference
  * _Independents_

  
  
  * Championships: Men / Women

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 130345285
  * LCCN: n95061019
  * GND: 7728340-5

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Ivy_League&oldid=816550294"

Categories:

  * Ivy League
  * Northeastern United States
  * Sports organisations established in 1954
  * Sports in the Eastern United States
  * 1954 establishments in the United States

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from June 2016
  * Pages using web citations with no URL
  * Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL
  * Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * View source
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gàidhlig
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Latina
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * مصرى
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Simple English
  * Slovenščina
  * Српски / srpski
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * தமிழ்
  * Taqbaylit
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 22 December 2017, at 02:21.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

