

# John Sexton

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

For other people named John Sexton, see John Sexton (disambiguation).

John Edward Sexton  
---  
15th President of New York University  
**In office**  
May 17, 2002  – December 31, 2015  
Preceded by | L. Jay Oliva  
Succeeded by | Andrew D. Hamilton  
Personal details  
Born | (1942-09-29) September 29, 1942 (age 75)  
New York, New York  
Residence | New York, New York, USA  
Alma mater | Fordham University  
Harvard University  
Profession | Professor  
  
**John Edward Sexton** (born September 29, 1942) is an American lawyer and
academic. Sexton served as the fifteenth President of New York University,
from 2002 to 2015. From 1988 to 2002, he served as Dean of the NYU School of
Law, during which time NYU became one of the top five law schools in the
country according to _U.S. News and World Report_. From January 1, 2003 to
January 1, 2007, he was the Chairman of the Board of the Federal Reserve Bank
of New York; in 2006, he served as chair of the Federal Reserve System's
Council of Chairs.

## Contents

  * 1 Education and early career
  * 2 Career at New York University School of Law
    * 2.1 Faculty member
    * 2.2 Dean of the New York University School of Law
  * 3 President of New York University
    * 3.1 Expansion of the Arts and Science faculty
    * 3.2 Fundraising campaign
    * 3.3 The Global Network University
    * 3.4 Undergraduate programs
    * 3.5 Framework 2031 and NYU 2031 expansion plan
    * 3.6 Leadership positions
    * 3.7 Grad student labor dispute, and an agreement on a graduate student union
    * 3.8 Free speech dispute
    * 3.9 Position on academic freedom and rights of political expression
    * 3.10 Approval of NYU's 2031 expansion plan, and opposition from faculty and community
    * 3.11 Vote of no confidence, and votes of support
    * 3.12 Salary and compensation
  * 4 Awards and recognition
  * 5 Personal life
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## Education and early career[edit]

Sexton graduated from Brooklyn Prep, a Jesuit high school, in 1959. He holds a
B.A. in history (1963), an M.A. in comparative religion (1965), and a Ph.D. in
history of American religion (1978) from Fordham University, as well as a J.D.
(1979) _magna cum laude_ from Harvard Law School, where he was Supreme Court
Editor of the Harvard Law Review.

From 1966 to 1975, he taught religion at St. Francis College in Brooklyn, New
York, where he was chair of the Religion Department. In 1977, he incorporated
the John Sexton Test Preparation Center in the New York City area, which
offered test preparation services for exams such as the GMAT and LSAT.
According to a government report, it served 6,500 students and had revenue of
over $650,000 in 1979.[1][2]

From 1961 to 1975, Sexton coached the debate team at St. Brendan's High
School, a Catholic girls' school in Brooklyn, New York, leading the team to
five national championships and numerous invitational titles. He was named to
the National Forensic League Hall of Fame in 2003. In 2005, the Barkley Forum
at Emory University presented him with a _Golden Anniversary Coaching Award_
recognizing him as a top high school debate coach of the past 50 years. Still
an avid proponent of interscholastic debate, he is chairman of the board of
Associated Leaders of Urban Debate (ALOUD), which seeks to bring debate
activities to underserved communities in America's urban areas.

After graduating from Harvard Law School, he clerked for judges Harold
Leventhal and David L. Bazelon of the United States Court of Appeals for the
District of Columbia Circuit in 1979-80, and he clerked for Chief Justice of
the United States Warren E. Burger in 1980-81.

## Career at New York University School of Law[edit]

### Faculty member[edit]

Sexton joined the faculty of the New York University School of Law in 1981
when he taught first year law students Civil Procedure (the rules of courts);
he received tenure in 1983.

Sexton has written several books and many articles, including _Redefining the
Supreme Court's Role: A Theory of Managing the Federal Judicial Process_ (with
Samuel Estreicher (Yale University Press, 1986)), and the 141-page _A
Managerial Theory of the Supreme Court's Responsibilities: An Empirical Study_
published in the NYU Law Review (with Samuel Estreicher) in October 1984. This
book and study were the centerpiece of a national debate over the creation of
a new intermediate court to fit between the Supreme Court of the United States
and the state supreme courts and the United States courts of appeals.[3]

Sexton co-edited _Civil Procedure: Cases and Materials_ (along with John
Cound, Jack Friedenthal, Helen Hershkoff, and Arthur R. Miller) a widely used
textbook on civil procedure.

###  Dean of the New York University School of Law[edit]

In 1988, Sexton was named dean of the New York University School of Law,
succeeding Norman Redlich. During his deanship, NYU’s School of Law rose to
number five in the U.S. News & World Report rankings of law schools; an
emphasis on faculty recruitment reduced the student faculty ratio from 19:1 to
12:1; the Hauser Global Law School Program [4] was established; the school
became among the most selective in the U.S. (average LSAT scores rose from the
94th to the 97th percentile; average GPAs rose from 3.54. to 3.66); and in
1998 the school completed the then-largest fundraising campaign in the history
of legal education ($185 million). In 2000, Kent D. Syverud, then-dean of the
Vanderbilt University Law School, called John Sexton the most effective dean
of his generation.[5]

## President of New York University[edit]

Sexton was named the 15th president of New York University by NYU's Board of
Trustees on May 8, 2001, about two months after then-President L. Jay Oliva
announced that he was stepping down. "I am a very fortunate man," Sexton told
the New York Daily News in an article published the next day. He assumed the
post of president on May 17, 2002, one day after the 2002 All-University
Commencement, and his official installation occurred on September 26, 2002. In
2009, NYU’s Board of Trustees asked him to stay on as president until 2016,
and Sexton accepted.

While serving as president, Sexton also actively taught; in 2008-09, he taught
two courses for NYU undergraduates – a fall freshman seminar on the Supreme
Court’s church and state cases, and a spring class for upperclassmen called
“Baseball as a Road to God” (which he discussed at length in a conversation on
Bill Moyers Journal).[6] In addition, he taught a year-long course on the
American Constitution, religion, and government for the Sheikh Mohammed bin
Zayed Al Nahyan Scholars Program (outstanding undergraduate students in United
Arab Emirates’ institutions of higher learning who are selected for special
academic and leadership opportunities).

During his presidency, NYU was named the “number one dream school” four times
by _The Princeton Review_.[7] In 2014, NYU received a record number of
prospective applicants for freshman admission for the seventh straight year in
a row.[8]

As president, Sexton wrote a number of “Reflections” on the nature of higher
education and challenges facing universities.[9] He has also discussed the
nature of the university extensively on The Open Mind (TV series).[10]

He appeared as a guest on _The Colbert Report_ on December 6, 2006; during his
time in the studio, he gave Stephen Colbert a hug.[11] He appeared again on
The Colbert Report on March 7, 2013 to promote his book _Baseball as a Road to
God_.[12]

In May 2010, Sexton was profiled by Bloomberg Businessweek in an article that
focused on his priorities for New York University.[13]

In its 25th anniversary issue in June 2010, Crains New York Business named
Sexton one of its _25 People to Watch_.[14]

In July 2010, he appeared on Charlie Rose (talk show) to discuss the global
network university, NYU's Abu Dhabi campus, and the state of public discourse,
among other topics.[15]

In addition to his duties as NYU president, Sexton teaches a full faculty
course-load.[16] A book based on one of the courses -- "Baseball as a Road to
God"—was published in 2013.[17]

During Sexton's presidency:

  * Applications for freshman admission more than doubled, from 29,000 to over 60,000.[18] Average SATs increased from 1300 to 1340. The number of freshmen with 1500 or greater SAT scores doubled. NYU became the #1 US university searched for by international students through the College Board's website in 2012.
  * The percentage of underrepresented minorities among students increased from 11% to 19%. The percentage of Pell eligible students increased from 19% to 23% -- higher than most other top private universities.
  * Tenured and tenure-track professorships in the arts and science grew by 20%
  * Scholars who have been faculty members at NYU since 2000 have been awarded five Nobels, three Abels, and National Medals of Science, Technology, and the Arts, among many other honors. The number of faculty in the National Academy of Sciences increased from 18 to 31
  * Two NYU students (one from NYU Abu Dhabi) were awarded Rhodes Scholarships (the first in a generation); two others were awarded Rhodes Trust Falcon Scholarships.
  * NYU was routinely in the top five of the Princeton Review's "Dream School" ranking, including four years at #1. In addition, NYU rose in US News & World Report rankings, the Times Higher Education rankings, the Financial Times ranking, and the Business Week ranking.
  * Thompson-Reuters found that NYU—along with King's College London—enjoyed the greatest increase in reputational standing between 2010 and 2014 among the leading universities it studied in its survey.
  * NYU opened two successful comprehensive, degree-granting liberal arts campuses—in Shanghai and in Abu Dhabi—and came to have Study Away sites on six continents.
  * The number of students studying abroad approximately doubled. The Institute of International Education routinely noted that NYU sent more students to study abroad than any other US college or university. And in November 2014, the IIE reported that NYU, for the first time, hosted more international students than any other US university.[19]
  * The financial aid budget more than doubled, with the average grant size increasing from 34% of tuition to 55% of tuition.
  * In 2013, NYU undertook a $1 billion fundraising campaign to improve financial aid.[20]
  * Fundraising totaled $4.9 billion from Fiscal Year 2003 to the end of Fiscal Year 2014. The Campaign for NYU, which ended in 2008, raised over $3 billion, the largest sum then raised in a campaign by a U.S. institution of higher learning.[21]
  * NYU's endowment increased from $1.14 billion in 2002 to $3.49 billion in 2014.[22]
  * NYU was selected as one of the winners of Mayor Bloomberg Applied Sciences NYU initiative with the creation of the Center for Urban Science and Progress in Brooklyn.[23]
  * NYU heavily invested in student wellness and student services, and the University received more Excellence Awards from the National Association of Student Personnel Administrators than any other college or university.
  * Engineering was restored as an academic discipline at NYU for the first time in 40 years following the merger with the former Polytechnic University.
  * NYU built its first new dedicated science building in 30 years.[24]
  * With the construction of a state-of-the-art co-generation plant to provide electricity, heating, and cooling to many campus buildings, NYU reduced its carbon footprint by 30%. In addition, other sustainability efforts led to a reduction in electrical usage of over 30% since 2006.
  * Developed first time long-term strategic space plan for physical growth and secured necessary city approvals.

### Expansion of the Arts and Science faculty[edit]

In 2004, Sexton announced a program – the Partners Plan - to expand tenured
and tenure-track faculty in the arts and sciences by 20 percent,[25] the
largest such expansion in the University's history. As of fall 2009, faculty
hires under the Partners Plan included totaled 245, including 124 hires to
replace departing faculty and 121 new hires to expand the arts and science
faculty.[ _citation needed_ ]

### Fundraising campaign[edit]

In 2008, NYU successfully finished what was then the largest completed
fundraising campaign in higher education.[26] _The Campaign for NYU_ , with a
stated goal of raising $2.5 billion, ultimately raised over $3 billion. In
2009, NYU’s fundraising continued to exceed $1 million per day in spite of the
economic crisis.[ _citation needed_ ]

### The Global Network University[edit]

In October 2007, NYU announced[27] the creation of New York University Abu
Dhabi,[28] the first such campus to be operated abroad by a major research
university. The school, which the university is referring to as the “world’s
honors college,”[29] is recruiting top students and faculty from around the
world,[30] and began classes in the fall of 2010. NYU Abu Dhabi is led by Vice
Chancellor Al Bloom, who took on the post in 2009 after 18 years as president
of Swarthmore College.[31] NYU Abu Dhabi recruited an outstandingly strong
first freshman class, which was notable for its selectivity (189 students were
accepted out of 9,048 applicants worldwide (an acceptance rate of 2.1
percent), with a 79.4 percent yield), its geographic diversity (the class of
150 students will include students from 39 countries on six continents), and
the academic qualifications of its students (at the classes’ 75th percentile,
the SAT critical reading score was 770 (ranking it fifth among US
universities) and the math score was 780 (ranking it sixth); the median SAT
score (on the 1600 scale) was 1470). The recruitment of the class was reported
on in an article in The New York Times on June 21, 2010.[32] Newsweek magazine
carried a Q+A with Sexton about the Abu Dhabi campus in August 2008.[33] In
August 2009, Sexton discussed the emergence of NYU as a Global Network
University in an interview[34] on National Public Radio's Weekend Edition –
Sunday with David Greene, as well as in two articles[35] in Abu Dhabi’s
English-language newspaper, The National (Abu Dhabi).

During Sexton’s presidency, the percentage of NYU students studying abroad has
increased to over 40 percent, and the Institute of International Education
recognized NYU as sending more students abroad than any other US
university.[36] The number of Study Abroad sites doubled, including the first
sites in Asia and Africa. In fall 2009, NYU opened its latest site in Tel
Aviv. In addition to its portal campus in Abu Dhabi, NYU currently operated
ten Global sites on five continents.[37] In addition to its global sites,
individual NYU schools and programs operate some two dozen international
programs, including NYU’s Tisch School of the Arts’ TischAsia in
Singapore.[38] The Stern School of Business implemented global components in
its undergraduate curriculum.[39] The NYU School of Law established an LL.M.
joint degree program [40] with the National University of Singapore.

Sexton discussed the idea of the Global Network University at length in late
2009 with Richard Heffner on The Open Mind (TV series).[41] "The New Global
University" was a topic of the British Council's _Going Global_ conference in
March 2010, at which Sexton was invited to speak.[42]

At the events marking the announcement of Gordon Brown as NYU's first Global
Distinguished Leader in Residence in December 2010, he discussed the Global
Network University concept at length.[43]

In March 2011, NAFSA: Association of International Educators recognized NYU
with its Senator Paul Simon Award for Campus Internationalization,[44] and
Fast Company (magazine) named NYU #1 on its list of education innovators,
citing the opening of NYU Abu Dhabi.[45]

On March 28, 2011, the University announced the creation of New York
University Shanghai, a research university with a liberal arts and science
college in China’s financial capital, the first American university with
independent legal status approved by the Chinese Ministry of Education, and
the result of a partnership between NYU and Shanghai.[46]

In April 2011, at the U.S. State Department's US-China Consultation on People-
to-People Exchange, Secretary of State Hillary Clinton cited NYU's
announcement about the opening of NYU Shanghai, and praised John Sexton's work
on the project.[47]

On July 11, 2011, in response to the detention of law-abiding democracy
advocates by the government of the United Arab Emirates (UAE) and Sexton's
suggestion that such detention was appropriate to the UAE's "security
concerns," Human Rights Watch asked Sexton to publicly retract his statements
on the matter.[48] He did not respond to this request.

### Undergraduate programs[edit]

Both Sexton’s own transition reports[49] and the Middle States Accreditation
Report[50] cited the need to enhance the experience of NYU undergraduates.
Since Sexton’s appointment, NYU put in place the award-winning[51] 24/7
Wellness Exchange,[52] specialized programming in student dorms,[53] and novel
resources to assist students.[54] In addition, NYU’s Student Health Center[55]
has been a pioneer in depression screening among college students.[56]

### Framework 2031 and NYU 2031 expansion plan[edit]

In 2002, Sexton’s transition teams identified the need for improved and better
coordinated planning.[49]

In June 2008, the NYU published _Framework 2031_ ,[57] which reviewed and
addressed the key issues, concerns, and opportunities the University would
confront over the two-plus decades leading to its bicentennial.

Increases in the size of the student body and program development that began
to accelerate in the 1990s sparked resistance in the Greenwich Village
neighborhood, as community members opposed NYU's expansion projects. In 2007,
NYU began a space planning process with intensive community involvement to
provide a roadmap for aligning the University’s academic needs and its growth
through 2031; the process included a number of open houses to provide for
community input.[58] In April 2010, the University announced _NYU 2031: NYU in
NYC_ , a long-term, citywide strategic framework for how and where NYU should
develop space for its academic mission. The strategy envisioned the addition
of as much as 6,000,000 sq ft (560,000 m2) of space over more than two
decades, but recognized that all of NYU's space needs could not be
accommodated within its neighborhood; therefore _NYU 2031: NYU in NYC_ called
for fully half of the growth to be spread over three locations outside
Greenwich Village—along Manhattan's Eastside health corridor, in Downtown
Brooklyn, and on Governors Island—and half in or near its core.[59]

In March 2011, NYU announced updates to its plans to expand over the coming
two decades, and in particular its proposal for the two "superblocks" near its
campus core.[60] Following editorial support by several New York City
newspapers, including the New York Times,[61] The New York Daily News[62] The
New York Post,[63] Crain's New York Business[64] and the New York
Observer,[65] and the approval of the New York City Planning Commission,[
_citation needed_ ] the New York City Council overwhelmingly voted approval
(44-1 in favor) of the NYU 2031 proposals in July 2012.[ _citation needed_ ]

### Leadership positions[edit]

Sexton has held a number of leadership positions in major higher education
organizations. While Dean of the NYU School of Law, Sexton served as president
of the Association of American Law Schools. In 2009, Sexton served as chair of
the Commission on Independent Colleges and Universities, vice-chair and chair-
designate of the American Council on Education, and chair of the New York
Academy of Sciences. He is also a member of the board of the Association of
American Universities, a member of the board of the National Association of
Independent Colleges and Universities, and a member of the board of the
Institute of International Education.[ _citation needed_ ]

In 2008-09, Sexton co-chaired (with Rick Trainor, the principal of King's
College London) the US-UK Study Group on Higher Education in a Global
Environment,[66] a working group of university presidents constituted by
British Prime Minister Gordon Brown.

In August 2008, Sexton was cited in Newsweek magazine in a piece called “The
Campus of the Future”.[67]

In October 2009, Sexton was suggested as a recipient of a prize for leadership
on the Washingtonpost.com site [68] by Paul R. Portney, dean of the Eller
College of Management at the University of Arizona.

In November 2009, Time (magazine) named Sexton one of the 10 Best College
Presidents.[69]

In March 2010, Sexton was named Chair of the American Council on Education[70]

In December 2010, Sexton was cited in the _On Leadership_ section of The
Washington Post for his efforts as president of NYU.[71]

In 2011, Sexton led a blue ribbon panel assembled by the American Council on
Education that issued a report on the competitiveness of U.S. universities and
the global higher education environment.[72]

Sexton was interviewed by sociologist Jonathan VanAntwerpen for chapter four
of the book _Shakespeare, Einstein, and the Bottom Line: The Marketing of
Higher Education_ (David L. Kirp et al.).[73] He was also interviewed by
Stephen Nelson about universities and their place in public dialogue for the
book _Leaders in the Labyrinth_.[74] He has also discussed issues relating to
the academy several times on The Open Mind (talk show).[75]

Sexton currently serves as the Chair Council of Presidents for the University
of the People. His experience has helped build the frameworks in establishing
the world's first non-profit, tuition-free, online academic institution that
seeks to revolutionize higher education by making college-level studies
accessible to students worldwide.

### Grad student labor dispute, and an agreement on a graduate student
union[edit]

In recent years, there has been controversy at NYU over the issue of
collective bargaining and union representation for graduate teaching
assistants (TAs) as well as research assistants (RAs). In 2001, NYU signed the
first and only collective bargaining agreement for TAs at a private
university.[76] In July 2004 in a case involving Brown University, the
National Labor Relations Board reversed its 2000 ruling involving NYU and –
reverting to long-standing prior precedent—determined that graduate students
are not workers.[77] In the spring and summer of 2005, there were discussions
between NYU and the United Auto Workers (which represented the TAs) to try to
come to terms on a new contract. Ultimately, this proved unsuccessful, and NYU
decided not to negotiate a second contract [78] with the Graduate Student
Organizing Committee, sparking a strike among graduate assistants in late 2005
and criticism of Sexton. GSOC called off the strike in 2006.[79] In 2009,
NYU’s Graduate School of Arts & Science – home to most of the NYU's fully
funded graduate students — modified its financial aid packages for graduate
students to eliminate assistantship duties; thereafter, graduate students who
wished to teach could do so (with additional compensation beyond their
graduate study stipends) as adjunct faculty, who are unionized at NYU.[80] In
November 2013, NYU and the UAW announced a joint agreement to recognize a
graduate student union; in March 2015, the two sides reached agreement on a
contract.

### Free speech dispute[edit]

During Sexton’s presidency, NYU also became involved in a disagreement with
the Foundation for Individual Rights in Education (FIRE). FIRE claimed that
NYU wrongly (but constitutionally, since NYU is a private school) suppressed
the display of Mohammad cartoons in April 2006, which were planned to
accompany an event sponsored by an NYU student organization, the Objectivist
Club. The student organizers had been given a choice by the University: the
cartoons could be displayed, in which case the event would have to be an NYU-
only event, open to the 60,000 member NYU community; or the Club could choose
not to display the cartoons, in which case the event could be open to the
general public as well. The Objectivist Club chose the latter format. In a
letter, Sexton challenged FIRE claims.[81]

### Position on academic freedom and rights of political expression[edit]

In both the NYU Abu Dhabi and NYU Shanghai campuses, NYU, under Sexton, has
insisted on having full discretion over academic matters and that the
principles of academic freedom prevail. Regarding NYU's establishment of
campuses in countries where strong restrictions exist on free public
expression, Sexton has suggested that academic freedom and the right to
political expression are easily distinguishable from one another: "I have no
trouble distinguishing between rights of academic freedom and rights of
political expression," he said. "These are two different things." [82]

### Approval of NYU's 2031 expansion plan, and opposition from faculty and
community[edit]

Following editorial support by several New York City newspapers, including the
New York Times,[61] The New York Daily News[62] The New York Post,[63] Crain's
New York Business[64] and the New York Observer,[65] and the approval of the
New York City Planning Commission,[ _citation needed_ ] the New York City
Council overwhelmingly voted approval (44-1 in favor) of the NYU 2031
proposals in July 2012.[ _citation needed_ ] Some members of the faculty[
_who?_ ] claimed that the administration of New York University, in seeking
approvals for the NYU 2031 plan, would create a development project that would
remove large tracts of open space from Greenwich Village and create a
construction zone on and off for years to come. Out of 170 academic
departments in the University, 37 passed resolutions against the NYU 2031
plan, including a majority of the departments in the Faculty of Arts and
Sciences; in response, Sexton indicated in a University Senate meeting in
spring 2012 that he would establish a presidential working group, composed
largely of faculty selected by the Faculty Senators Council and the schools
and chaired by the head of the Faculty Senators Council, to review space and
development issues. That group, the University Space Priorities Working Group,
began its work in fall 2012.[83] It completed its work in March 2014. In its
final report, the group found that NYU did indeed have a pressing need for
additional academic space, determined that the University's plans for a new
facility were within it financial means, and recommended that the University
with a new facility on the site of the Coles Sports and Recreation Center.

A faculty organization called "Faculty Against the Sexton Plan" was formed to
fight the administration's plans.[84] The plan, which had prompted contentious
public meetings within the Greenwich Village community during the approvals
process, was, as noted above, ultimately approved by the New York City Council
by a vote 44-1.[85] That group was one of a number of plaintiffs in a lawsuit
against the University over the plan; in October 2014, the Appellate Division
of the New York State Supreme Court ruled for NYU and the City and against the
plaintiffs.[86]

### Vote of no confidence, and votes of support[edit]

On March 15, 2013, Sexton lost a vote of no confidence among NYU Faculty of
Arts and Sciences, by a vote of 52% to 39% with 8% abstaining; with a total of
83% voter participation.[87] Subsequently, faculty of the Gallatin School, the
Steinhardt School, and the Tisch School also passed votes of no confidence.
However, the NYU Board of Trustees reaffirmed their support for Sexton;[88]
moreover, the faculty of the NYU School of Law passed a faculty vote of
confidence in Sexton by 59-2 (with 3 abstentions), the Faculty Council at the
School of Medicine passed a resolution of support for Sexton by 28-9, and the
School of Social Work voted down a motion of no confidence by 20-12 (with 9
abstentions).[89] The University has stated that he will retire as the
university's president after his contract expires in 2016, after 14 years as
president, 14 years as Law School dean, and seven years as a faculty member.[
_citation needed_ ]

### Salary and compensation[edit]

In the 2007-8 school year, the NY Post reports, Sexton received $1.3 million
in executive compensation for his service as president of the university.[90]

His salary has increased since then to $1.5 million. Sexton will receive a
length of service bonus of $2.5 million in 2015.[91] He also will receive
$800,000 annually in retirement.[92]

## Awards and recognition[edit]

Sexton is a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and President
of the New York Academy of Sciences.[93] He is a member of the Council on
Foreign Relations.

In March 2015, Sexton was honored with the Theodore Hesburgh Award by the
American Council on Education and the TIAA-CREF Institute. The award is given
annually to a college or university president in recognition of outstanding
leadership.

In 2002, an endowed professorship – the John Edward Sexton Professorship of
Law – was created in his honor at the NYU School of Law.

In 2003, the 60th anniversary edition of NYU’s Annual Survey of American Law
was dedicated[94] to Sexton.

In July 2008, he was named a Chevalier de la Legion d'honneur.

He has received honorary degrees from Hamilton College, the University of
Warwick in the UK, Fordham University, St. John's University (New York), the
University of Rochester, St. Francis College, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven,
Saint Joseph's College (New York), the University of Surrey, King's College
London, the University of Strathclyde, and in 2016 he received an honorary
doctorate from Felician University.

Sexton was named the Brooklyn Prep “Alumnus of the Year” in 1995 and he was
selected as the featured speaker Harvard Law School Forum Speaker in 2005.[95]

He is a fellow of the Foreign Policy Association based in New York City.[
_citation needed_ ]

John Sexton serves as a member of the Advisory Board of the Genesis Prize
Foundation.[96]

## Personal life[edit]

Sexton's marriage to author Kathleen B. Jones, a student whom he met while a
debate coach at St. Brendan's High School[97] was annulled after five years.
Jones described the marriage as a "storybook romance" between a "young debate
coach" and an "even younger star debater" in her non-fiction book _Living
Between Danger and Love._[98]

He met Lisa E. Goldberg, who became his wife in 1976, while they were both
students at Harvard Law School. Ms. Goldberg, who became president of the
Charles H. Revson Foundation, died suddenly of a brain aneurysm on January 21,
2007 at age 54.[99] He eulogized her at a memorial service in February
2007.[100]

Sexton's older child, Jed, is a Harvard graduate and aspiring actor. He is
married to Danielle DeCrette, a former administrative employee at NYU
Law.[101][102][103][104] They have three daughters: Julia, Ava, and Natalie.
Sexton's younger child is Katherine Lodgen Sexton, a graduate of Yale and the
NYU School of Law.[105] She married Eric Gurian in December 2013.[106]

Thomas Oliphant's New York Times Bestseller _Praying for Gil Hodges_ briefly
mentions that Sexton grew up as a Brooklyn Dodgers fan. In fact, Sexton is
such a well-known baseball fan that he was an early participant in Rotissere
(or Fantasy) Baseball, as a member of the Eddie Gaedel Baseball League. Sexton
was one of a number of celebrities who reminisced about their baseball
memories on the HBO special _Brooklyn Dodgers - Ghosts of Flatbush_. In July
2009, Sexton threw out the first pitch at a Washington Nationals Game.[107] He
teaches "Baseball as a Road To God" at NYU and in 2013 wrote a book of the
same name.[108]

Over the years, Sexton has been the subject of several public profiles in
prominent media venues. In September 2009, he was featured in The New York
Times’ _Sunday Routines_ section.[109] He is a Roman Catholic.[109] In March
2010, he was interviewed by Bill Moyers on the PBS Public Broadcasting Service
show _Bill Moyers Journal_.[110] In May 2010, he was the subject of a NY1
profile on _One on 1 withBudd Mishkin._[111] In Sept. 2013, he was the subject
of a profile in The New Yorker.[112]

##  References[edit]

  1. **^** Copyright Office (1979). _Catalog of Copyright Entries_ (Third Series (31.1.2.2) ed.). Library of Congress. p.  2978. 
  2. **^** House Committee on Education and Labor, Subcommittee on Elementary, Secondary, and Vocational Education (1980). _Truth in Testing Act of 1979_. U.S. Government Printing Office. pp.  680, 682. 
  3. **^** "Can the Supreme Court Manage?". _New York Times_. 1985-03-12. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  4. **^** "NYU Law". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  5. **^** Kent Syverud (3 September 2006). "Three Principles Of Effective Deaning". University of Toledo College of Law. Archived from the original on 3 September 2006.  
  6. **^** "The Journal: John Sexton". PBS Video. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  7. **^** O'Neill, James M. (Mar 28, 2007). "NYU Tops Harvard for Fourth Year as `Dream School' for Students". Retrieved May 16, 2014. 
  8. **^** "NYU receives over 52,000 Freshman Applications". NYU. Apr 7, 2014. Retrieved  May 16, 2014. 
  9. **^** "Speeches & Statements". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  10. **^** "John Sexton". Archive.org. 2001-03-10. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  11. **^** "John Sexton - The Colbert Report". Colbertnation.com. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  12. **^** "John Sexton - The Colbert Report". Colbertnation.com. Retrieved  2013-03-09. 
  13. **^** Hechinger, John (2010-05-27). "John Sexton's Global Campus Plans for NYU". BusinessWeek. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
  14. **^** "John Sexton - 25 People to Watch". Crain's New York Business. 2010-06-06. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  15. **^** "John Sexton, President of New York University". Charlie Rose. Archived from the original on 2012-09-13. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  16. **^** Freedman, Samuel (20 April 2012). "Baseball Has Its Worshipers, and at N.Y.U., You Get Credit". _New York Times_. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  17. **^** "John Sexton - The Colbert Report - Video Clip". _Colbert Nation_. Comedy Central. 2013-07-03. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  18. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/about/news-publications/news/2015/01/13/record-breaking-60000-students-apply-to-nyu-largest-increase-in-15-years.html
  19. **^** http://www.iie.org/en/Who-We-Are/News-and-Events/Press-Center/Press-Releases/2014/2014-11-17-Open-Doors-Data
  20. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/about/leadership-university-administration/office-of-the-president/redirect/speeches-statements/the-momentum-campaign-to-raise-funds-for-financial-aid.html (Press Release)
  21. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/about/news-publications/news/2008/10/30/nyu_raises_over_3_billion_in.html (Press Release)
  22. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/content/dam/nyu/investmentOffice/documents/NYU%20Endowment%20Summary%20-%202014.pdf
  23. **^** http://www.wnyc.org/story/202054-blog-mayor-announces-2nd-tech-campus-nyc/
  24. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/about/news-publications/news/2004/11/16/nyu_to_develop_science.html (Press Release)
  25. **^** Arenson, Karen W. (2004-09-27). "N.Y.U. Begins Hiring Effort To Lift Its Liberal Arts Standing". New York Times. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
  26. **^** "NYU News". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  27. **^** Krieger, Zvika (2007-10-15). "Abu Dhabi Will Get Its Own NYU Campus". The Chronicle of Higher Education. Retrieved 2012-05-07. 
  28. **^** "NYU Abu Dhabi University & College in UAE". NYU Abu Dhabi. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  29. **^** "About NYU Abu Dhabi". NYU Abu Dhabi. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  30. **^** "Frequently Asked Questions — NYU Abu Dhabi". NYU Abu Dhabi. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  31. **^** Santora, Marc (2008-09-30). "N.Y.U. Names the Leader of Its Abu Dhabi Campus". _The New York Times_.  
  32. **^** Foderaro, Lisa W. (2010-06-20). "N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi Scours Globe for Its First Students". _The New York Times_.  
  33. **^** "Q&A: NYU's President on New Abu Dhabi Campus - The Daily Beast". Newsweek.com. 2008-08-14. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  34. **^** Weekend Edition Sunday (2009-08-16). "NYU Commute To Get Better If You're In Abu Dhabi". NPR. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  35. **^** \- Saturday. "Make no little plans - The National". Thenational.ae. Archived from the original on 2014-01-07. Retrieved 2013-06-29. 
  36. **^** "Iienetwork.Org". Opendoors.iienetwork.org. Retrieved  2012-11-08. 
  37. **^** "The Global Network University". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  38. **^** "Home: Tisch School of the Arts Asia". Tisch School of the Arts Asia. Archived from the original on 2012-05-16. Retrieved  2012-05-07. 
  39. **^** "NYU Stern | Undergraduate Program". W4.stern.nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  40. **^** "NYU Law - LL.M. & J.S.D.: LL.M. Singapore". Law.nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  41. **^** "Multimedia". Nyu.edu. 2010-03-11. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  42. **^** Labi, Aisha (2010-03-25). "Education Leaders Gather in London to Imagine the New Global University - Global - The Chronicle of Higher Education". Chronicle.com. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  43. **^** Foderaro, Lisa W. (2010-12-14). "At N.Y.U., Britain's Gordon Brown Pursues Global Vision". _The New York Times_.  
  44. **^** "About | Senator Paul Simon Award for Campus Internationalization". NAFSA. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  45. **^** "The 10 Most Innovative Companies in Education". Fast Company. 2011-03-15. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  46. **^** "NYU and Shanghai Partner to Create NYU Shanghai". Nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  47. **^** "Remarks at the U.S.-China Consultation on People-to-People Exchange (CPE)". State.gov. 2011-04-12. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  48. **^** "Letter to NYU President John Sexton Regarding Suppression of Free Speech in the UAE | Human Rights Watch". Hrw.org. 2011-07-11. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  49. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Transition Team Final Report
  50. **^** "NYU News". Nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  51. **^** "Excellence Awards Winners". NASPA. Archived from the original on 2012-02-25. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  52. **^** "Wellness Exchange". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  53. **^** "Living at NYU". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  54. **^** "Student Resource Center". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  55. **^** "Student Health Center". NYU. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  56. **^** Jaschik, Scott (2009-05-29). "Reaching Students Who Don't Report Depression". Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  57. **^** "Final Version Framework 2031" (PDF). Nyu.edu. Retrieved May 16, 2014. 
  58. **^** Arenson, Karen W. (2007-07-02). "With Doors Open to Neighbors, N.Y.U. Shapes Plan for Growth". _The New York Times_.  
  59. **^** "NYU 2031: NYU in NYC". Nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  60. **^** "NYU Prepares Submission to Begin Public Review of NYU Core Expansion Plan". Nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  61. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Let N.Y.U. Expand in Its Backyard". _New York Times_. 31 March 2012. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  62. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NYU's expansion plan is good for the school and for Greenwich Village". _New York Daily News_. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  63. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Stringer-ing NYU along". _New York Post_. 2012-03-28. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  64. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NYU Plan Makes the Grade" (PDF). _Crain's New York Business_. 12 March 2012. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  65. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NYU and the Village". _The New York Observer_. 2012-04-04. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  66. **^** UK/UK Study Group Report
  67. **^** Stefan Theil (2008-08-08). "Reinventing the Global University - The Daily Beast". Newsweek.com. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  68. **^** Portney, Paul R. (2009-10-12). "On Leadership Panelists: Ben Bernanke deserves a leadership award for his calm, decisive actions. - Paul R. Portney". Views.washingtonpost.com. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  69. **^** New York University, New York City (2009-11-11). "John Sexton - The 10 Best College Presidents". TIME. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  70. **^** "ACE | NYU President John Sexton Becomes New Board Chair of American Council on Education". Acenet.edu. Archived from the original on 2010-04-01. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  71. **^** Portney, Paul R. (2010-12-22). "On Leadership Panelists: The higher educators: Steven Sample and John Sexton - Paul R. Portney". Views.washingtonpost.com. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  72. **^** "ACE | ACE's Blue Ribbon Panel on Global Engagement Report Informs Next Steps for American Higher Education". Acenet.edu. Archived from the original on 2012-04-03. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  73. **^** "Star Wars: New York University".  
  74. **^** "Abc-Clio". Greenwood.com. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  75. **^** "Richard Heffner's Open Mind | THIRTEEN". Theopenmind.tv. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  76. **^** Arenson, Karen W.; Greenhouse, Steven (2002-01-30). "N.Y.U. and Union Agree On Graduate-Student Pay - New York Times". Nytimes.com. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  77. **^** NLRB decision says graduate students are not statutory employees
  78. **^** "Office of the Provost". Nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  79. **^** Arenson, Karen W. (2006-09-07). "N.Y.U. Teaching Aides End Strike, With Union Unrecognized". _The New York Times_.  
  80. **^** "Graduate School Fellowships and Assistantships, Graduate School of Arts and Science | NYU". Gsas.nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  81. **^** "Downloading e13006dd4b0c40bc4b1cfac9b10bc2c4.pdf" (PDF). Thefire.org. Retrieved 2012-05-25. 
  82. **^** "China Halts U.S. Academic Freedom at Classroom Door for Colleges". Businessweek. 2011-12-06. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  83. **^** "Space Priorities". New York University. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  84. **^** "& StandUp4NYC". Nyufasp. 2012-10-30. Retrieved  2012-11-08. 
  85. **^** Rinn, Natalie (2012-04-26). "N.Y.U. 2031′s Booers and Boosters Face Off Before Planning Commission". _The New York Times_.  
  86. **^** https://www.nytimes.com/2014/10/15/nyregion/court-gives-go-ahead-to-expansion-by-nyu.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3As%2C{%221%22%3A%22RI%3A5%22}&_r=0
  87. **^** "Vote of No Confidence passes against John Sexton". Nyunews.com. 2013-03-15. Retrieved  2013-06-29. 
  88. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/about/leadership-university-administration/board-of-trustees/a-message-from-the-board-of-trustees-in-response-to-the-fas-vote.html (Press Release)
  89. **^** "Let's Review: No Confidence at NYU". Nyulocal.com. 2013-09-06. Retrieved  2014-10-12. 
  90. **^** Gonen, Yoav (2009-11-02). "Big salaries on campus". _New York Post_.  
  91. **^** ERIC PIANIN, The Fiscal Times (2013-03-20). "The Backroom Financial Dealings of a Top University". Thefiscaltimes.com. Retrieved 2013-06-29. 
  92. **^** ERIC PIANIN, The Fiscal Times. "N.Y.U. Gives Its Stars Loans for Summer Homes". NYtimes.com. Retrieved 2015-10-08. 
  93. **^** NYAS Board of Governors: John E. Sexton: Chair
  94. **^** "NYU Law - Journals: Annual Survey of American Law". .law.nyu.edu. Retrieved  2012-05-25. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  95. **^** Harvard Law School Forum
  96. **^** Genesis Prize official website, accessed March 18, 2015 "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2015-04-02. Retrieved 2015-03-18. 
  97. **^** Martens, Pam J. (16 July 2013). "The Battle to Save New York University Intensifies". wallstreetonparade.com. Retrieved 2014-01-07. 
  98. **^** Jones, Kathleen B. 1999. _Living Between Danger and Love: The Limits of Choice_. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press, p. 50.
  99. **^** "Lisa E. Goldberg, 54, Foundation President, Dies". _New York Times_. 24 January 2007. Retrieved  2014-01-07. 
  100. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/about/leadership-university-administration/office-of-the-president/redirect/speeches-statements/for-lisa-ellen-goldberg.html (Press Release)
  101. **^** John Sexton’s son scored NYU pad during housing shortage, The Real Deal, April 16, 2014
  102. **^** _John Sexton Provided His Son With University Housing_ by David Zumwalt, NYU Local, April 17, 2014
  103. **^** _NYU President Gave Son Duplex Dorm During Campus Housing Shortage_ by Jordan Sargent, Gawker, April 16, 2014 Archived April 17, 2014, at the Wayback Machine.
  104. **^** _NYU gave president’s aspiring actor son apartment on campus_ by James Covert, New York Post, April 16, 2014
  105. **^** Katherine Sexton and Eric Gurian - NYTimes.com
  106. **^** https://www.nytimes.com/2013/12/22/fashion/weddings/katherine-sexton-and-eric-gurian.html?module=Search&mabReward=relbias%3As%2C{%221%22%3A%22RI%3A5%22}
  107. **^** John Sexton Throws Out First Pitch
  108. **^** Freedman, Samuel G. (2012-04-20). "At N.Y.U., Worshiping Baseball, for Credit". _The New York Times_.  
  109. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Church, Work and a Yankees Nightcap". _New York Times_. September 11, 2009.  
  110. **^** "Bill Moyers Journal . John Sexton". PBS. Retrieved  2012-05-25. 
  111. **^**  . "One On 1: John Sexton Expands On Life's Lessons". NY1.com. Retrieved 2012-05-25. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  112. **^** http://www.newyorker.com/magazine/2013/09/09/the-imperial-presidency

##  External links[edit]

  * Biography portal

  * 

  * v
  * t
  * e

Chancellors and Presidents of New York University  
  
---  
Chancellors |

  * Mathews (1831–1839)
  * Frelinghuysen (1839–1850)
  * Ferris (1853–1870)
  * Crosby (1870–1881)
  * Hall (1881–1891)
  * MacCracken (1891–1911)
  * Brown (1911–1933)
  * Chase (1933–1951)
  * Madden (acting, 1951–1952)

  
  
Presidents |

  * Heald (1952–1956)
  * Newsom (1956–1962)
  * Hester (1962–1975)
  * Sawhill (1975–1980)
  * Bennett (acting, 1979–1981)
  * Brademas (1981–1991)
  * Oliva (1991–2002)
  * Sexton (2002–2015)
  * Hamilton (2016– )

  
  
*From 1850–1851 the faculty and Council jointly administered the University  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

New York University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * Archives
  * Brennan Center for Justice
  * Center for Cosmology and Particle Physics
  * Center on the Administration of Criminal Law
  * Frederic Ewen Academic Freedom Center
  * Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy
  * GNAT
  * New York Institute for the Humanities
  * _New York University Journal of International Law and Politics_
  * _New York University Law Review_
  * New York University Press
  * _NYU Annual Survey of American Law_
  * NYU Catherine B. Reynolds Program for Social Entrepreneurship
  * Root-Tilden Scholarship
  * Rudin Center for Transportation Policy & Management
  * Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine
  * _Washington Square Review_

  
  
Athletics |

  * NYU Violets
    * Men's basketball
  * Coles Sports and Recreation Center
  * Deans' Cup
  * Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Campus |

  * 370 Jay Street
  * Brown Building
  * Casa Italiana Zerilli Marimò
  * Elmer Holmes Bobst Library
  * Fales Library
  * James B. Duke House
  * La Maison Française
  * Langone Medical Center
  * Puck Building
  * Residence halls
  * Silver Center
  * Skirball Center for the Performing Arts
  * Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Archives
  * Union Square
  * University Village
  * Washington Mews
  * Washington Square Park
  * Washington Square Village
  * Wunsch Building
  * NYU Paris
  * NYU London
  * NYU Florence

  
  
Culture |

  * NYU in popular culture

  
  
People |

  * List of New York University alumni
  * List of New York University faculty
  * List of New York University honorary degree recipients
  * List of Presidents of New York University
  * List of New York University staff

  
  
Schools |

| Undergraduate |

  * College of Arts and Science
  * Liberal Studies
  * Nursing
  * Individualized Study
  * Engineering
  * Social Work
  * Public Service
  * Mathematical Sciences
  * Culture, Education, and Human Development
  * Business
  * Arts
  * NYU Abu Dhabi
  * NYU Shanghai

  
  
---|---  
Graduate |

  * Dentistry
  * Mathematical Sciences
  * Arts and Science
  * Ancient World
  * Fine Arts
  * Engineering
  * Public Service
  * Professional Studies
  * Law
  * Medicine
  * Social Work

  
  
Library |

  * New York University Libraries
  * Elmer Holmes Bobst Library
  * Fales Library

  
  
Life |

  * Eucleian Society
  * Graduate Student Organizing Committee
  * History of NYU
  * _NYU Local_
  * Philomathean Society
  * _The Plague_
  * Red Dragon Society
  * Student life
  * Student Senators Council
  * _Washington Square News_
  * WNYU-FM

  
  
Academic offices  
---  
Preceded by  
L. Jay Oliva | **President of New York University**  
2002-2015 |  Succeeded by  
Andrew Hamilton  
Preceded by  
Norman Redlich | **Dean of New York University School of Law**  
1988-2002 |  Succeeded by  
Richard Revesz  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 108645748
  * LCCN: n90622237
  * IATH: w6f065wv

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=John_Sexton&oldid=816868097"

Categories:

  * 1942 births
  * Federal Reserve System
  * Fordham University alumni
  * Harvard Law School alumni
  * Law school deans
  * Law clerks of the Supreme Court of the United States
  * Living people
  * Presidents of New York University
  * New York University faculty
  * St. Francis College
  * 20th-century American writers
  * 21st-century American writers
  * New York University School of Law faculty
  * Scholars of civil procedure law

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from November 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from October 2014
  * Articles with unsourced statements from January 2014
  * All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from January 2014
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Français
  * Русский
  * Українська

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 24 December 2017, at 07:22.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

