

# Margaret Morrison Carnegie College

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

**Margaret Morrison Carnegie College** ( **MMCC** ) was the women's college
for Carnegie Mellon University. It was founded in 1903 and opened its doors to
students in 1906 as the Margaret Morrison Carnegie School for Women. The
school was closed in 1973.[1]

## Contents

  * 1 Founding and early history
  * 2 Closing
  * 3 Legacy
  * 4 Notable alumnae
  * 5 References
  * 6 External links

## Founding and early history[edit]

MMCC was founded in 1903 as one of the four colleges of the Carnegie Institute
of Technology (CIT). Andrew Carnegie, the founder of CIT, named the college
after his mother. MMCC's principal aim would be to train young women to earn
their livelihood.[2]

The curriculum in the first year included principles of science and economics,
history, English, accounts, social ethics, sewing, drawing, cookery, and
personal hygiene. In their second and third years, students could choose to
specialize in secretarial courses, household arts and institutional
management, technical dressmaking, costume design, applied design, or
architectural and interior decoration.[2]

Of the goals of the college, Eileen McConomy, steering committee chairperson
of the MMCC Centennial, stated, "although some of the major disciplines
available to us may seem archaic to current students, for our era they were
relevant [...] our education was rigorous. Our women professors were the
forerunners of the feminist movement and inspired us to take charge of our
lives, to not be afraid to speak out for what we believed was right, and to
demand excellence in all that we did."[2]

## Closing[edit]

Margaret Morrison Carnegie College closed in 1973 due to declining enrollment:
"Entering on the coattails of the 1950s were societal and institutional
changes that would ultimately seal the fate of MMCC. Homemaking was less apt
to be considered a profession; women students were turning increasingly to
careers based in the liberal arts and sciences. A steadily climbing enrollment
in these fields led to the integration of many MMCC programs into Tech’s other
schools."[2]

## Legacy[edit]

Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall

The end of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College also marked the beginning of the
College of Humanities and Social Sciences (now known as the Dietrich College
of Humanities and Social Sciences), and several programs and departments were
absorbed into the new college as well as the Mellon College of Science and
College of Fine Arts.[3] Margaret Morrison Street runs through the west end of
the campus. The Margaret Morrison Apartments[4] and the Margaret Morrison
Courtyard[5] are located along the street. Margaret Morrison Carnegie Hall
serves as the headquarters of the Carnegie Mellon School of Design and a
principal facility of the Carnegie Mellon College of Fine Arts. In 2006, a
dining facility called the Maggie Murph Café was opened within Hunt Library,
the main library at Carnegie Mellon University.[6]

## Notable alumnae[edit]

Alumnae of the college are known as Maggie Murphs.[2] Stephanie Kwolek, the
inventor of Kevlar, graduated from Margaret Morrison Carnegie College in 1946
with a B.S. in General Science (Chemistry).[3] Newbery Medal winning-author E.
L. Konigsburg is a 1952 graduate of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College.[7]

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "C-MU Closing Out 'Maggie' By 1973". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. 1969-11-24. Retrieved  2010-03-16. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "History of MMCC". Carnegie Mellon Today. Archived from the original on 2009-02-21. Retrieved  2010-03-16. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Margaret Morrison Carnegie College Records". Carnegie Mellon Libraries. 2004-11-16. Retrieved  2010-03-16. 
  4. **^** "Margaret Morrison Apartments". Carnegie Mellon Housing & Dining Services. 2008-09-11. Retrieved  2010-03-16. 
  5. **^** "Margaret Morrison Courtyard" (PDF). Carnegie Mellon Housing & Dining Services. 2006-09-15. Retrieved 2010-03-16. 
  6. **^** "Maggie Murph Café". Carnegie Mellon Housing & Dining Services. Retrieved  2010-03-16. 
  7. **^** "Legacy of Distinction". Carnegie Mellon Today. Retrieved  2010-03-16. 

## External links[edit]

  * History of MMCC
  * _The Maggie Murphs 1906-73: A History of Margaret Morrison Carnegie College_

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

American women's colleges that became coeducational  
  
---  
Became  
coeducational |

  * Adelphi
  * Albertus Magnus
  * Andrew
  * Anna Maria
  * Barber-Scotia
  * Beaver
  * Bennington
  * Blue Mountain College
  * Brescia
  * Cabrini
  * Caldwell
  * Carlow
  * Cazenovia
  * Chestnut Hill
  * Chowan
  * Columbia (MO)
  * Connecticut College
  * Dominican (CA)
  * Dominican (NY)
  * Drexel College of Medicine
  * Elms
  * Elmira
  * Emmanuel (MA)
  * Felician
  * Florida State
  * Fontbonne
  * Georgia College
  * Georgian Court
  * Goucher
  * Greensboro
  * Holy Family
  * Holy Names
  * Hood
  * Hunter
  * Huston-Tillotson
  * Immaculata
  * Incarnate Word
  * James Madison
  * Keuka
  * LaGrange
  * Lake Erie
  * Lasell
  * Lesley
  * Lindenwood
  * Longwood
  * MacMurray
  * Mary Hardin–Baylor
  * Mary Washington
  * Marygrove
  * Marymount (CA)
  * Marymount (VA)
  * Marymount Manhattan
  * Marywood
  * Mercy (NY)
  * Mercyhurst
  * Midway
  * Misericordia
  * Mississippi University for Women
  * Mount Mercy
  * Mount St. Joseph
  * Mount St. Vincent
  * Montevallo
  * Moravian
  * Notre Dame (OH)
  * Notre Dame de Namur
  * Ohio Dominican
  * Our Lady of Holy Cross
  * Our Lady of the Lake
  * Pine Manor
  * Queens (NC)
  * Radford
  * Randolph
  * Regis (MA)
  * Rosemont
  * Rivier
  * St. Francis (IL)
  * St. Joseph's (NY)
  * St. Scholastica
  * St. Xavier (IL)
  * Sarah Lawrence
  * Salve Regina
  * Seton Hill
  * Shorter
  * Silver Lake
  * Skidmore
  * Southern Virginia
  * Spalding
  * Stevenson
  * Texas Woman's
  * Thomas More (KY)
  * Trocaire
  * UNC Greensboro
  * University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma
  * Vassar
  * Virginia Union
  * Viterbo
  * Washington College of Law
  * Webster
  * Wells
  * Wheaton (MA)
  * William Peace
  * William Woods
  * Wilson (PA)
  * Winthrop

  
  
Coordinate  
colleges |

  * Douglass (merged with Rutgers University)
  * Evelyn College for Women (with Princeton University; closed)
  * Georgia State College for Women (with Georgia School of Technology to form Georgia College & State University)
  * H. Sophie Newcomb Memorial College (merged with Tulane University)
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (merged with Carnegie Mellon University)
  * Maryhill College (merged with St. Edward's University)
  * Mt Vernon College (with GW University)
  * Pembroke (merged with Brown University)
  * Radcliffe College (merged with Harvard University)
  * University of Mary Washington (with University of Virginia)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * History
    * Timeline
  * Culture
  * Dialect
  * Media
  * Neighborhoods
  * Notable people
  * Skyscrapers

  
  
|

Government  
  
---  
  
  * Airport
  * Conventions
  * City Hall
  * Courthouse
  * Mayor
  * Council
  * Events
  * InterGov
  * Police
  * D.A.
  * Sheriff
  * Fire
  * Libraries
  * Transit
  * Education
  * Port
  * Regional

  
  
|

Economy  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Conference
  * Duquesne Club
  * Chamber of Commerce
  * Economic Club
  * HYP Club
  * Stock Exchange

  
  
---  
  
| Fortune 500 headquarters |

  * U.S. Steel
  * PNC Financial Services
  * PPG Industries
  * Kraft Heinz
  * Mylan
  * WESCO International
  * Consol Energy
  * Dick's Sporting Goods
  * Allegheny Technologies

  
  
---|---  
Forbes largest private  
companies headquarters |

  * 84 Lumber
  * Giant Eagle

  
  
Other corporation headquarters |

  * American Bridge
  * American Eagle Outfitters
  * Ampco Pittsburgh
  * ANSYS
  * Armstrong Communications
  * Atlas America
  * Black Box
  * Bruster's Ice Cream
  * Calgon Carbon
  * Compunetix
  * Dollar Bank
  * DQE Energy
  * Eat'n Park
  * EDMC
  * EQT Energy
  * Federated Investors
  * GNC
  * Guru.com
  * Highmark
  * H. Laughlin China
  * iGate
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Kennametal
  * Koppers
  * MARC USA
  * Millcraft Industries
  * Mine Safety Appliances
  * Niche.com
  * Oxford Development
  * PTC Alliance
  * Renda Broadcasting
  * rue21
  * University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
  * Vocelli Pizza
  * Wabtec

  
  
Companies with split headquarters |

  * Alcoa
  * ModCloth
  * NOVA Chemicals

  
  
Subsidiary company headquarters |

  * Allegheny Energy
  * Bayer Corporation
  * FedEx Ground
  * GlaxoSmithKline USA
  * LANXESS
  * Respironics
  * Vivisimo
  * Westinghouse Electric Company

  
  
Outside companies with  
strong Pittsburgh relations |

  * BNY Mellon (formerly Mellon Financial)
  * Dreyfus Corporation
  * Eaton Corporation
  * Spreadshirt
  * Macy's

  
  
Historic |

  * Fisher's Big Wheel
  * Clark Bar
  * Dravo
  * Fisher Scientific
  * Integra Bank
  * Mesta Machinery
  * G. C. Murphy
  * Gulf Oil
  * J&L Steel
  * Ketchum
  * Rockwell
  * Sunbeam
  * Westinghouse

  
  
List of corporations in Pittsburgh  
  
|

Sports  
  
---  
  
|

  * Dapper Dan
  * Grand Prix
  * Great Race
  * Head of the Ohio
  * Lore
  * Marathon
  * Mylan Classic
  * Regatta
  * WPHL

  
  
---  
Baseball |

  * Pirates
  * Wild Things
  * Panthers
  * Dukes

    _Chronicle-Telegraph Cup_
    Allegheny
    Burghers
    Champions
    Crawfords
    Filipinos
    Grays
    Hardhats
    Keystones
    Stogies
    Rebels  
  
Basketball |

  * Yellow Jackets
  * Panthers (m)
  * Panthers (w)
  * Dukes (m)
  * Dukes (w)
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)

    Roundball Classic
    Condors
    Ironmen
    Loendi
    Monticello
    Phantoms
    Pipers
    Piranhas
    Pirates
    Rens
    Xplosion  
  
Football |

  * Steelers
  * Panthers
  * Steeler Nation
  * heritage
  * Colts
  * Force
  * Passion
  * Renegades

    1898 All-Stars
    Allegheny
    Americans
    A's
    Duquesne
    Gladiators
    Homestead
    Lyceum
    Maulers
    Power
    Odds
    Olympics
    Quakers
    JP
    Stars
    Early Pro Football Circuit  
  
Hockey |

  * Penguins
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)
  * Three Rivers Classic

    A's
    Bankers
    Cougars
    Duquesne
    Ft. Pitt
    Hornets
    Keystones
    Lyceum
    Panthers
    Phantoms
    Pirates
    Pirates (WPHL)
    Pros
    Shamrocks
    Victorias
    Winter Garden
    Yellow Jackets  
  
Soccer |

  * Riverhounds

    Beadling
    Cannons
    Hurricanes
    Phantoms
    Spirit  
  
Other |

    Sledgehammers
    Bulls
    Harlequins
    PCC
    Triangles
    Wallabies
    Studio Wrestling
    Dirty Dozen  
  
Venues |

  * PPG Paints Arena
  * Heinz Field
  * PNC Park
  * 84 Lumber Arena
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Highmark Stadium
  * Palumbo Center
  * Petersen Events Center
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Rooney Field
  * Sewall Center
  * Trees Hall

    Central Park
    Civic Arena
    Duquesne Gardens
    Exposition Park
    Forbes Field
    Josh Gibson Field
    Greenlee Field
    Motor Square Garden
    Pitt Stadium
    Recreation Park
    Schenley Gardens
    Three Rivers
    Winter Garden  
  
|

Parks  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Arsenal
  * Allegheny Commons
  * Allegheny Riverfront
  * ArtGardens
  * Buhl Community
  * Chatham University Arboretum
  * Frank Curto
  * **Frick**
  * **Emerald View**
  * **Highland**
  * Market Square
  * Mellon
  * Mellon Green
  * Mellon Square
  * North Shore Riverfront
  * Phillips
  * Point of View
  * Point State
  * PPG Place
  * **Riverview**
  * Roberto Clemente Memorial
  * Rodef Shalom Biblical Botanical Garden
  * **Schenley**
  * Schenley Plaza
  * South Shore Riverfront
  * South Side
  * **Three Rivers**
  * West End Overlook
  * Westinghouse

  
  
---  
  
|

Transportation  
  
---  
  
|

  * Inclines
  * Steps

  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Port Authority of Allegheny County  
  
---  
Light rail  
(List of stations) |

  *      Blue Line – Library
  *      Blue Line – South Hills Village
  *      Red Line – Castle Shannon
  *      Red Line – South Hills Village

|  
  
Inclines  
(Historical list) |

  * Duquesne Incline
  * Monongahela Incline

  
  
Buses and busways  
(List of routes) |

  *      Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway
  *      South Busway
  *      West Busway

  
  
Former lines |

  * 47 Drake
  * Brown Line
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
Other |

  * North Shore Connector
  * Port Authority 4000 Series PCC
  * Wabash Tunnel

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Public transportation in Greater Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Bus services |

  * **Port Authority of Allegheny County**
    * list of bus routes
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Fayette
  * IndiGO
  * Mid Mon Valley
  * Mountain Line
  * New Castle
  * Town & Country
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Washington
  * Westmoreland

  
  
Bus rapid transit |

  * MLK Jr. East Busway
  * South Busway
  * West Busway

  
  
Light rail |

  * Red Line
  * Blue Line 
    * Library
    * South Hills Village

  
  
Inclines |

  * Duquesne
  * Monongahela

  
  
Amtrak |

  * _Capitol Limited_
  * _Pennsylvanian_

  
  
Airports |

  * **Pittsburgh International**
  * **Arnold Palmer**
  * Allegheny County
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Eddie Dew
  * Greensburg Jeannette
  * Herron
  * Jefferson
  * Jimmy Stewart
  * Joe Hardy
  * Lakehill
  * Monroeville
  * New Castle
  * Rock
  * Rostraver
  * Washington
  * Wheeling
  * Zelienople

  
  
Discontinued |

  * _Broadway Limited_
  * Brown Line
  * List of streetcar routes in Pittsburgh
  * _Parkway Limited_
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Tunnels and bridges in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Tunnels |

  * Allegheny River Tunnel
  * Armstrong Tunnel
  * Cork Run Tunnel
  * Corliss Tunnel
  * Fort Pitt Tunnel
  * J&L Tunnel
  * Liberty Tunnel
  * Mount Washington Transit Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh and Castle Shannon Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh & Steubenville Extension Railroad Tunnel
  * Schenley Tunnel
  * Squirrel Hill Tunnel
  * Wabash Tunnel

|  
  
Bridges |

  * 30th Street Bridge
  * 31st Street Bridge
  * 33rd Street Railroad Bridge
  * 40th Street Bridge
  * Bloomfield Bridge
  * Birmingham Bridge
  * David McCullough Bridge
  * Fort Duquesne Bridge
  * Fort Pitt Bridge
  * Fort Wayne Railroad Bridge
  * Glenwood Bridge
  * Glenwood B&O Railroad Bridge
  * Highland Park Bridge
  * Homestead Grays Bridge
  * Hot Metal Bridge
  * Liberty Bridge
  * McKees Rocks Bridge
  * Panhandle Bridge
  * Panther Hollow Bridge
  * Schenley Bridge
  * Senator Robert D. Fleming Bridge
  * Smithfield Street Bridge
  * South Tenth Street Bridge
  * Three Sisters
    * Roberto Clemente Bridge
    * Andy Warhol Bridge
    * Rachel Carson Bridge
  * Veterans Bridge
  * West End Bridge

  
  
|

Attractions  
  
---  
  
|

  * Aviary
  * Baywood
  * Cathedral of Learning
  * Chinatown
  * Conservatory
  * _Dippy_
  * Immaculate Heart
  * Duquesne Incline
  * Heinz Chapel
  * Little Italy
  * Mellon Institute
  * Mon Incline
  * Observatory
  * Pamela's
  * Penn Station
  * _Point of View_ sculpture
  * Primanti's
  * Science Center
  * Steps
  * USS _Requin_
  * Zoo
  * Kennywood
  * Luna Park
  * Westinghouse Sign

  
  
---  
Landmarks |

  * National (City)
  * National (County)
  * State
  * City
  * PHLF
  * Cultural

  
  
Museums |

  * Art
  * Arts
  * Arts Festival
  * Bible
  * Fort Pitt and Blockhouse
  * Clayton
  * Clemente
  * Children's
  * Frick
  * Glass Center
  * History
  * Jazz
  * Jewish
  * Mattress Factory
  * Dental
  * Miller
  * Miss Pittsburgh
  * Nationality Rooms
  * National Map
  * Natural History
  * Soldiers and Sailors
  * Warhol
  * Wilson
  * WSG

  
  
Venues |

  * Heinz Hall
  * Benedum
  * Byham
  * Harris
  * Kelly-Strayhorn
  * New Hazlett
  * O'Reilly
  * Foster
  * Playhouse
  * Trib
  * Hunt
  * Stage AE
  * Syria Mosque
  * Nixon Theater

  
  
Festivals |

  * Anthrocon
  * Arts
  * Blues
  * Comicon
  * Fashion
  * Film
  * Folk
  * Handmade
  * New Works
  * Tekko
  * Whiskey & Fine Spirits
  * Wine

  
  
|

Shopping and entertainment  
  
---  
  
  * Casino
  * Gateway Clipper Fleet
  * Station Square
  * Strip
  * Downtown
  * Oakland
  * South Side

  * Macy's
  * Market Square
  * Southside Works
  * Waterworks
  * Mount Washington
  * East Liberty
  * Squirrel Hill
  * Shadyside
  * Walnut Street

  * Opera
  * Ballet
  * Symphony
  * Brass
  * Classical Theatre
  * Dance
  * Ensemble
  * Caravan Theatre
  * Folk
  * Light Opera
  * Opera Theater
  * Jewish Theatre
  * Public Theater
  * Playwrights
  * Musical Theater
  * Stage Right
  * Youth Ballet
  * Youth Symphony
  * Bricolage
  * NNOC

|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Shopping malls in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Enclosed |

  * Beaver Valley Mall
  * The Block Northway
  * Century III Mall
  * The Galleria of Mt. Lebanon
  * The Mall at Robinson
  * Monroeville Mall
  * Pittsburgh Mills
  * Ross Park Mall
  * South Hills Village
  * Station Square
  * Uniontown Mall
  * Warner Centre
  * Washington Crown Center
  * Westmoreland Mall

  
  
Lifestyle /  
Outdoor |

  * Bakery Square
  * Edgewood Towne Centre
  * Ellsworth Avenue
  * McCandless Crossing
  * Northern Lights
  * Robinson Town Centre
  * Settlers Ridge
  * SouthSide Works
  * Walnut Street
  * The Waterfront
  * Waterworks Mall

  
  
Outlet |

  * Grove City Premium Outlets
  * Tanger Outlets Pittsburgh

  
  
Defunct |

  * Allegheny Center Mall
  * East Hills Shopping Center (Eastgate Commerce Center)
  * Eastland Mall
  * Greengate Mall
  * Parkway Center Mall
  * Village Square Mall
  * Washington Mall

  
  
|

Colleges and universities  
  
---  
  
  * Pitt
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Duquesne
  * Robert Morris
  * Chatham
  * Point Park
  * Carlow
  * Art Institute
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Saint Paul Seminary
  * CCAC

  
  
|

Culture of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * Cookie table
  * Jewish history
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Jagoff
  * Joe Magarac
  * _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_
  * Mr. Yuk
  * Parking chairs
  * Pittsburgh left
  * Pittsburgh toilet
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * Steeler Nation

  
  
  * **Book**
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Margaret_Morrison_Carnegie_College&oldid=783424592"

Categories:

  * Defunct universities and colleges in Pennsylvania
  * Educational institutions established in 1903
  * Schools and departments of Carnegie Mellon
  * Educational institutions disestablished in 1973
  * Andrew Carnegie
  * 1903 establishments in Pennsylvania
  * 1973 disestablishments in Pennsylvania

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 2 June 2017, at 06:00.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

