

# Massachusetts Institute of Technology

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

"MIT" redirects here. For other uses, see MIT (disambiguation).

Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
---  
Motto | _Mens et Manus_ (Latin)  
  
Motto in English

| Mind and Hand[1]  
Type | Private  
Land grant  
Space-grant  
Established | April 10, 1861 (1861-04-10)  
  
Academic affiliations

| AAU  
AICUM  
AITU  
APLU  
COFHE  
NAICU[2]  
URA  
568 Group  
Endowment | $14.8 billion (2017)[3]  
Chancellor | Cynthia Barnhart  
President | L. Rafael Reif  
Provost | Martin A. Schmidt  
  
Academic staff

| 1,021[4]  
Students | 11,319[5]  
Undergraduates | 4,512[5]  
Postgraduates | 6,807  
Location | Cambridge, Massachusetts, U.S.  
Campus | Urban, 168 acres (68.0 ha)[6]  
Newspaper | _The Tech_  
Colors |  Cardinal Red and Silver Gray[7]  
  
Nickname | Engineers[8]  
  
Sporting affiliations

| NCAA Division III – NEWMAC, NEFC,  
Pilgrim League  
Division I – EARC and EAWRC (rowing)  
Mascot | Tim the Beaver[9]  
Website | web.mit.edu  
  
The **Massachusetts Institute of Technology** ( **MIT** ) is a private
research university in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States. Founded in
1861 in response to the increasing industrialization of the United States, MIT
adopted a European polytechnic university model and stressed laboratory
instruction in applied science and engineering. Researchers worked on
computers, radar and inertial guidance during World War II and the Cold War.
Post-war defense research contributed to the rapid expansion of the faculty
and campus under James Killian. The current 168-acre (68.0 ha) campus opened
in 1916 and extends over 1 mile (1.6 km) along the northern bank of the
Charles River basin.

MIT is a member of the Association of American Universities (AAU). The
Institute is traditionally known for its research and education in the
physical sciences and engineering, but more recently in biology, economics,
linguistics and management as well. MIT is often cited among the world's best
universities by various organizations.[10][11][12][13][14] The MIT Engineers
compete in 31 sports, most teams of which compete in the NCAA Division III's
New England Women's and Men's Athletic Conference, whereas the Division I
rowing programs compete as part of the EARC and EAWRC.

As of 2017[update], 88 Nobel laureates, 52 National Medal of Science
recipients, 65 Marshall Scholars, 45 Rhodes Scholars, 38 MacArthur Fellows, 34
astronauts, 21 Turing award winners, 16 Chief Scientists of the U.S. Air Force
and 6 Fields Medalists have been affiliated with MIT. The school has a strong
entrepreneurial culture and the aggregated revenues of companies founded by
MIT alumni would rank as the eleventh-largest economy in the world.[15][16]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Foundation and vision
    * 1.2 Early developments
    * 1.3 Curricular reforms
    * 1.4 Defense research
    * 1.5 Recent history
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 Architecture
    * 2.2 Housing
  * 3 Organization and administration
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Undergraduate program
    * 4.2 Graduate program
    * 4.3 Rankings
    * 4.4 Collaborations
    * 4.5 Libraries, collections and museums
    * 4.6 Research
  * 5 Discoveries and innovation
    * 5.1 Natural sciences
    * 5.2 Computer and applied sciences
    * 5.3 Companies and entrepreneurship
  * 6 Traditions and student activities
    * 6.1 Activities
    * 6.2 Athletics
  * 7 People
    * 7.1 Students
    * 7.2 Faculty and staff
    * 7.3 Notable alumni
  * 8 See also
  * 9 References
    * 9.1 Notes
    * 9.2 Citations
    * 9.3 Bibliography
  * 10 External links

## History[edit]

Main article: History of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

### Foundation and vision[edit]

“ | [...] a school of industrial science aiding the advancement, development
and practical application of science in connection with arts, agriculture,
manufactures, and commerce. | ”  
---|---|---  
— Act to Incorporate the Massachusetts Institute of Technology,  
_Acts of 1861, Chapter 183_[17]  
  
Stereographic card showing an MIT mechanical drafting studio, 19th century
(photo by E.L. Allen, left/right inverted)

Original Rogers Building, Back Bay, Boston, 19th century

In 1859, a proposal was submitted to the Massachusetts General Court to use
newly filled lands in Back Bay, Boston for a "Conservatory of Art and
Science", but the proposal failed.[18][19] A charter for the incorporation of
the Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposed by William Barton Rogers,
was signed by the governor of Massachusetts on April 10, 1861.[20]

Rogers, a professor from the University of Virginia, wanted to establish an
institution to address rapid scientific and technological advances.[21][22] He
did not wish to found a professional school, but a combination with elements
of both professional and liberal education,[23] proposing that:

> The true and only practicable object of a polytechnic school is, as I
conceive, the teaching, not of the minute details and manipulations of the
arts, which can be done only in the workshop, but the inculcation of those
scientific principles which form the basis and explanation of them, and along
with this, a full and methodical review of all their leading processes and
operations in connection with physical laws.[24]

The Rogers Plan reflected the German research university model, emphasizing an
independent faculty engaged in research, as well as instruction oriented
around seminars and laboratories.[25][26]

### Early developments[edit]

A 1905 map of MIT's Boston campus

Two days after MIT was chartered, the first battle of the Civil War broke out.
After a long delay through the war years, MIT's first classes were held in the
Mercantile Building in Boston in 1865.[27] The new institute was founded as
part of the Morrill Land-Grant Colleges Act to fund institutions "to promote
the liberal and practical education of the industrial classes" and was a land-
grant school.[28][29] In 1863 under the same act, the Commonwealth of
Massachusetts founded the Massachusetts Agricultural College, which developed
as the University of Massachusetts Amherst. In 1866, the proceeds from land
sales went toward new buildings in the Back Bay.[30]

MIT was informally called "Boston Tech".[30] The institute adopted the
European polytechnic university model and emphasized laboratory instruction
from an early date.[31] Despite chronic financial problems, the institute saw
growth in the last two decades of the 19th century under President Francis
Amasa Walker.[32] Programs in electrical, chemical, marine, and sanitary
engineering were introduced,[33][34] new buildings were built, and the size of
the student body increased to more than one thousand.[32]

The curriculum drifted to a vocational emphasis, with less focus on
theoretical science.[35] The fledgling school still suffered from chronic
financial shortages which diverted the attention of the MIT leadership. During
these "Boston Tech" years, MIT faculty and alumni rebuffed Harvard University
president (and former MIT faculty) Charles W. Eliot's repeated attempts to
merge MIT with Harvard College's Lawrence Scientific School.[36] There would
be at least six attempts to absorb MIT into Harvard.[37] In its cramped Back
Bay location, MIT could not afford to expand its overcrowded facilities,
driving a desperate search for a new campus and funding. Eventually the MIT
Corporation approved a formal agreement to merge with Harvard, over the
vehement objections of MIT faculty, students, and alumni.[37] However, a 1917
decision by the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court effectively put an end to
the merger scheme.[37]

Plaque in Building 6 honoring George Eastman, founder of Eastman Kodak, who
was revealed as the anonymous "Mr. Smith" who helped maintain MIT's
independence

In 1916, the MIT administration and the MIT charter crossed the Charles River
on the ceremonial barge _Bucentaur_ built for the occasion,[38][39] to signify
MIT's move to a spacious new campus largely consisting of filled land on a
mile-long tract along the Cambridge side of the Charles River.[40][41] The
neoclassical "New Technology" campus was designed by William W. Bosworth[42]
and had been funded largely by anonymous donations from a mysterious "Mr.
Smith", starting in 1912. In January 1920, the donor was revealed to be the
industrialist George Eastman of Rochester, New York, who had invented methods
of film production and processing, and founded Eastman Kodak. Between 1912 and
1920, Eastman donated $20 million ($236.6 million in 2015 dollars) in cash and
Kodak stock to MIT.[43]

###  Curricular reforms[edit]

In the 1930s, President Karl Taylor Compton and Vice-President (effectively
Provost) Vannevar Bush emphasized the importance of pure sciences like physics
and chemistry and reduced the vocational practice required in shops and
drafting studios.[44] The Compton reforms "renewed confidence in the ability
of the Institute to develop leadership in science as well as in
engineering".[45] Unlike Ivy League schools, MIT catered more to middle-class
families, and depended more on tuition than on endowments or grants for its
funding.[46] The school was elected to the Association of American
Universities in 1934.[47]

Still, as late as 1949, the Lewis Committee lamented in its report on the
state of education at MIT that "the Institute is widely conceived as basically
a vocational school", a "partly unjustified" perception the committee sought
to change. The report comprehensively reviewed the undergraduate curriculum,
recommended offering a broader education, and warned against letting
engineering and government-sponsored research detract from the sciences and
humanities.[48][49] The School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences and
the MIT Sloan School of Management were formed in 1950 to compete with the
powerful Schools of Science and Engineering. Previously marginalized faculties
in the areas of economics, management, political science, and linguistics
emerged into cohesive and assertive departments by attracting respected
professors and launching competitive graduate programs.[50][51] The School of
Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences continued to develop under the
successive terms of the more humanistically oriented presidents Howard W.
Johnson and Jerome Wiesner between 1966 and 1980.[52]

### Defense research[edit]

MIT's involvement in military science surged during World War II. In 1941,
Vannevar Bush was appointed head of the federal Office of Scientific Research
and Development and directed funding to only a select group of universities,
including MIT.[53] Engineers and scientists from across the country gathered
at MIT's Radiation Laboratory, established in 1940 to assist the British
military in developing microwave radar. The work done there significantly
affected both the war and subsequent research in the area.[54] Other defense
projects included gyroscope-based and other complex control systems for
gunsight, bombsight, and inertial navigation under Charles Stark Draper's
Instrumentation Laboratory;[55][56] the development of a digital computer for
flight simulations under Project Whirlwind;[57] and high-speed and high-
altitude photography under Harold Edgerton.[58][59] By the end of the war, MIT
became the nation's largest wartime R&D contractor (attracting some criticism
of Bush),[53] employing nearly 4000 in the Radiation Laboratory alone[54] and
receiving in excess of $100 million ($1.2 billion in 2015 dollars) before
1946.[45] Work on defense projects continued even after then. Post-war
government-sponsored research at MIT included SAGE and guidance systems for
ballistic missiles and Project Apollo.[60]

“ | ...a special type of educational institution which can be defined as a
university polarized around science, engineering, and the arts. We might call
it a university limited in its objectives but unlimited in the breadth and the
thoroughness with which it pursues these objectives. | ”  
---|---|---  
— MIT president James Rhyne Killian, 1949[61]  
  
These activities affected MIT profoundly. A 1949 report noted the lack of "any
great slackening in the pace of life at the Institute" to match the return to
peacetime, remembering the "academic tranquility of the prewar years", though
acknowledging the significant contributions of military research to the
increased emphasis on graduate education and rapid growth of personnel and
facilities.[62] The faculty doubled and the graduate student body quintupled
during the terms of Karl Taylor Compton, president of MIT between 1930 and
1948; James Rhyne Killian, president from 1948 to 1957; and Julius Adams
Stratton, chancellor from 1952 to 1957, whose institution-building strategies
shaped the expanding university. By the 1950s, MIT no longer simply benefited
the industries with which it had worked for three decades, and it had
developed closer working relationships with new patrons, philanthropic
foundations and the federal government.[63]

In late 1960s and early 1970s, student and faculty activists protested against
the Vietnam War and MIT's defense research.[64][65] In this period MIT's
various departments were researching helicopters, smart bombs and
counterinsurgency techniques for the war in Vietnam as well as guidance
systems for nuclear missiles.[66] The Union of Concerned Scientists was
founded on March 4, 1969 during a meeting of faculty members and students
seeking to shift the emphasis on military research toward environmental and
social problems.[67] MIT ultimately divested itself from the Instrumentation
Laboratory and moved all classified research off-campus to the MIT Lincoln
Laboratory facility in 1973 in response to the protests.[68][69] The student
body, faculty, and administration remained comparatively unpolarized during
what was a tumultuous time for many other universities.[64] Johnson was seen
to be highly successful in leading his institution to "greater strength and
unity" after these times of turmoil.[70] However six MIT students were
sentenced to prison terms at this time and some former student leaders, such
as Michael Albert and George Katsiaficas, are still indignant about MIT's role
in military research and its suppression of these protests.[71] (Richard
Leacock's film, _November Actions_ , records some of these tumultuous
events.[72])

In the 1980s, there was more controversy at MIT over its involvement in SDI
(space weaponry) and CBW (chemical and biological warfare) research.[73] More
recently, MIT’s research for the military has included work on robots, drones
and ‘battle suits’.[74]

### Recent history[edit]

The MIT Media Lab houses researchers developing novel uses of computer
technology and shown here is the 1982 building, designed by I.M. Pei, with an
extension (right of photo) designed by Fumihiko Maki opened in March 2010

MIT has kept pace with and helped to advance the digital age. In addition to
developing the predecessors to modern computing and networking
technologies,[75][76] students, staff, and faculty members at Project MAC, the
Artificial Intelligence Laboratory, and the Tech Model Railroad Club wrote
some of the earliest interactive computer video games like _Spacewar!_ and
created much of modern hacker slang and culture.[77] Several major computer-
related organizations have originated at MIT since the 1980s: Richard
Stallman's GNU Project and the subsequent Free Software Foundation were
founded in the mid-1980s at the AI Lab; the MIT Media Lab was founded in 1985
by Nicholas Negroponte and Jerome Wiesner to promote research into novel uses
of computer technology;[78] the World Wide Web Consortium standards
organization was founded at the Laboratory for Computer Science in 1994 by Tim
Berners-Lee;[79] the OpenCourseWare project has made course materials for over
2,000 MIT classes available online free of charge since 2002;[80] and the One
Laptop per Child initiative to expand computer education and connectivity to
children worldwide was launched in 2005.[81]

MIT was named a sea-grant college in 1976 to support its programs in
oceanography and marine sciences and was named a space-grant college in 1989
to support its aeronautics and astronautics programs.[82][83] Despite
diminishing government financial support over the past quarter century, MIT
launched several successful development campaigns to significantly expand the
campus: new dormitories and athletics buildings on west campus; the Tang
Center for Management Education; several buildings in the northeast corner of
campus supporting research into biology, brain and cognitive sciences,
genomics, biotechnology, and cancer research; and a number of new "backlot"
buildings on Vassar Street including the Stata Center.[84] Construction on
campus in the 2000s included expansions of the Media Lab, the Sloan School's
eastern campus, and graduate residences in the northwest.[85][86] In 2006,
President Hockfield launched the MIT Energy Research Council to investigate
the interdisciplinary challenges posed by increasing global energy
consumption.[87]

In 2001, inspired by the open source and open access movements,[88] MIT
launched OpenCourseWare to make the lecture notes, problem sets, syllabi,
exams, and lectures from the great majority of its courses available online
for no charge, though without any formal accreditation for coursework
completed.[89] While the cost of supporting and hosting the project is
high,[90] OCW expanded in 2005 to include other universities as a part of the
OpenCourseWare Consortium, which currently includes more than 250 academic
institutions with content available in at least six languages.[91] In 2011,
MIT announced it would offer formal certification (but not credits or degrees)
to online participants completing coursework in its "MITx" program, for a
modest fee.[92] The "edX" online platform supporting MITx was initially
developed in partnership with Harvard and its analogous "Harvardx" initiative.
The courseware platform is open source, and other universities have already
joined and added their own course content.[93]

Three days after the Boston Marathon bombing of April 2013, MIT Police patrol
officer Sean Collier was fatally shot by the suspects Dzhokhar and Tamerlan
Tsarnaev, setting off a violent manhunt that shut down the campus and much of
the Boston metropolitan area for a day.[94] One week later, Collier's memorial
service was attended by more than 10,000 people, in a ceremony hosted by the
MIT community with thousands of police officers from the New England region
and Canada.[95][96][97] On November 25, 2013, MIT announced the creation of
the Collier Medal, to be awarded annually to "an individual or group that
embodies the character and qualities that Officer Collier exhibited as a
member of the MIT community and in all aspects of his life". The announcement
further stated that "Future recipients of the award will include those whose
contributions exceed the boundaries of their profession, those who have
contributed to building bridges across the community, and those who
consistently and selflessly perform acts of kindness".[98][99][100]

In September 2017, the school announced the creation of an artificial
intelligence research lab called the MIT-IBM Watson AI Lab. IBM will spend
$240 million over the next decade and the lab will be staffed by MIT and IBM
scientists.[101]

## Campus[edit]

Main article: Campus of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

The central and eastern sections of MIT's campus as seen from above
Massachusetts Avenue and the Charles River. Left of center is the Great Dome
overlooking Killian Court, with Kendall Square to the upper right.

MIT's Building 10 and Great Dome overlooking Killian Court

MIT's 168-acre (68.0 ha) campus in the city of Cambridge spans approximately a
mile along the north side of the Charles River basin.[6] The campus is divided
roughly in half by Massachusetts Avenue, with most dormitories and student
life facilities to the west and most academic buildings to the east. The
bridge closest to MIT is the Harvard Bridge, which is known for being marked
off in a non-standard unit of length – the smoot.[102][103]

The Kendall MBTA Red Line station is located on the northeastern edge of the
campus, in Kendall Square. The Cambridge neighborhoods surrounding MIT are a
mixture of high tech companies occupying both modern office and rehabilitated
industrial buildings, as well as socio-economically diverse residential
neighborhoods.[104][105] In early 2016, MIT presented its updated Kendall
Square Initiative to the City of Cambridge, with plans for mixed-use
educational, retail, residential, startup incubator, and office space in a
dense high-rise transit-oriented development plan.[106][107] The MIT Museum
will eventually be moved immediately adjacent to a Kendall Square subway
entrance, joining the List Visual Arts Center on the eastern end of the
campus.[107][108]

Each building at MIT has a number (possibly preceded by a _W_ , _N_ , _E_ , or
_NW_ ) designation and most have a name as well. Typically, academic and
office buildings are referred to primarily by number while residence halls are
referred to by name. The organization of building numbers roughly corresponds
to the order in which the buildings were built and their location relative
(north, west, and east) to the original center cluster of Maclaurin
buildings.[109] Many of the buildings are connected above ground as well as
through an extensive network of underground tunnels, providing protection from
the Cambridge weather as well as a venue for roof and tunnel
hacking.[110][111]

MIT's on-campus nuclear reactor[112] is one of the most powerful university-
based nuclear reactors in the United States. The prominence of the reactor's
containment building in a densely populated area has been controversial,[113]
but MIT maintains that it is well-secured.[114] In 1999 Bill Gates donated
US$20 million to MIT for the construction of a computer laboratory named the
"William H. Gates Building", and designed by architect Frank Gehry. While
Microsoft had previously given financial support to the institution, this was
the first personal donation received from Gates.[115]

Other notable campus facilities include a pressurized wind tunnel and a towing
tank for testing ship and ocean structure designs.[116][117] MIT's campus-wide
wireless network was completed in the fall of 2005 and consists of nearly
3,000 access points covering 9,400,000 square feet (870,000 m2) of
campus.[118]

In 2001, the Environmental Protection Agency sued MIT for violating the Clean
Water Act and the Clean Air Act with regard to its hazardous waste storage and
disposal procedures.[119] MIT settled the suit by paying a $155,000 fine and
launching three environmental projects.[120] In connection with capital
campaigns to expand the campus, the Institute has also extensively renovated
existing buildings to improve their energy efficiency. MIT has also taken
steps to reduce its environmental impact by running alternative fuel campus
shuttles, subsidizing public transportation passes, and building a low-
emission cogeneration plant that serves most of the campus electricity,
heating, and cooling requirements.[121]

The MIT Police with state and local authorities, in the 2009-2011 period, have
investigated reports of 12 forcible sex offenses, 6 robberies, 3 aggravated
assaults, 164 burglaries, 1 case of arson, and 4 cases of motor vehicle theft
on campus; affecting a community of around 22,000 students and employees.[122]

MIT has substantial commercial real estate holdings in Cambridge on which it
pays property taxes, plus an additional voluntary payment in lieu of taxes
(PILOT) on academic buildings which are legally tax-exempt. As of
2017[update], it is the largest taxpayer in the city, contributing
approximately 14% of the city's annual revenues.[123] Holdings include
Technology Square, parts of Kendall Square, and many properties in
Cambridgeport and Area 4 neighboring the educational buildings.[124] The land
is held for investment purposes and potential long-term expansion.

### Architecture[edit]

The Stata Center houses CSAIL, LIDS, and the Department of Linguistics and
Philosophy

MIT's School of Architecture, now the School of Architecture and Planning, was
the first in the United States,[125] and it has a history of commissioning
progressive buildings.[126][127] The first buildings constructed on the
Cambridge campus, completed in 1916, are sometimes called the "Maclaurin
buildings" after Institute president Richard Maclaurin who oversaw their
construction. Designed by William Welles Bosworth, these imposing buildings
were built of reinforced concrete, a first for a non-industrial – much less
university – building in the U.S.[128] Bosworth's design was influenced by the
City Beautiful Movement of the early 1900s[128] and features the Pantheon-
esque Great Dome housing the Barker Engineering Library. The Great Dome
overlooks Killian Court, where graduation ceremonies are held each year. The
friezes of the limestone-clad buildings around Killian Court are engraved with
the names of important scientists and philosophers.[a] The spacious Building 7
atrium at 77 Massachusetts Avenue is regarded as the entrance to the Infinite
Corridor and the rest of the campus.[105]

Alvar Aalto's Baker House (1947), Eero Saarinen's MIT Chapel and Kresge
Auditorium (1955), and I.M. Pei's Green, Dreyfus, Landau, and Wiesner
buildings represent high forms of post-war modernist
architecture.[131][132][133] More recent buildings like Frank Gehry's Stata
Center (2004), Steven Holl's Simmons Hall (2002), Charles Correa's Building 46
(2005), and Fumihiko Maki's Media Lab Extension (2009) stand out among the
Boston area's classical architecture and serve as examples of contemporary
campus "starchitecture".[126][134] These buildings have not always been well
received;[135][136] in 2010, _The Princeton Review_ included MIT in a list of
twenty schools whose campuses are "tiny, unsightly, or both".[137]

###  Housing[edit]

Main article: Housing at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

The Simmons Hall undergrad dormitory was completed in 2002

Undergraduates are guaranteed four-year housing in one of MIT's 12
undergraduate dormitories.[138] Those living on campus can receive support and
mentoring from live-in graduate student tutors, resident advisors, and faculty
housemasters.[139] Because housing assignments are made based on the
preferences of the students themselves, diverse social atmospheres can be
sustained in different living groups; for example, according to the _Yale
Daily News_ staff's _The Insider's Guide to the Colleges, 2010_ , "The split
between East Campus and West Campus is a significant characteristic of MIT.
East Campus has gained a reputation as a thriving counterculture."[140] MIT
also has 5 dormitories for single graduate students and 2 apartment buildings
on campus for married student families.[141]

MIT has an active Greek and co-op housing system, including thirty-six
fraternities, sororities, and independent living groups (FSILGs).[142] As of
2015[update], 98% of all undergraduates lived in MIT-affiliated housing; 54%
of the men participated in fraternities and 20% of the women were involved in
sororities.[143] Most FSILGs are located across the river in Back Bay near
where MIT was founded, and there is also a cluster of fraternities on MIT's
West Campus that face the Charles River Basin.[144] After the 1997 alcohol-
related death of Scott Krueger, a new pledge at the Phi Gamma Delta
fraternity, MIT required all freshmen to live in the dormitory system starting
in 2002.[145] Because FSILGs had previously housed as many as 300 freshmen
off-campus, the new policy could not be implemented until Simmons Hall opened
in that year.[146] Recently, MIT has also shut down Senior House. Last year,
MIT administrators released data showing just 60 percent of Senior House
residents graduated in four years. Campus-wide, the four-year graduation rate
is 84 percent. [147]

## Organization and administration[edit]

Lobby 7 (at 77 Massachusetts Avenue) is regarded as the main entrance to
campus

MIT is chartered as a non-profit organization and is owned and governed by a
privately appointed board of trustees known as the MIT Corporation.[148] The
current board consists of 43 members elected to five-year terms,[149] 25 life
members who vote until their 75th birthday,[150] 3 elected officers
(President, Treasurer, and Secretary),[151] and 4 _ex officio_ members (the
president of the alumni association, the Governor of Massachusetts, the
Massachusetts Secretary of Education, and the Chief Justice of the
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court).[152][153] The board is chaired by
Robert Millard, a co-founder of L-3 Communications Holdings.[154][155] The
Corporation approves the budget, new programs, degrees and faculty
appointments, and elects the President to serve as the chief executive officer
of the university and preside over the Institute's faculty.[105][156] MIT's
endowment and other financial assets are managed through a subsidiary called
MIT Investment Management Company (MITIMCo).[157] Valued at $13.182 billion in
2016, MIT's endowment is the sixth-largest among American colleges and
universities.[3]

MIT has five schools (Science, Engineering, Architecture and Planning,
Management, and Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences) and one college
(Whitaker College of Health Sciences and Technology), but no schools of law or
medicine.[158][b] While faculty committees assert substantial control over
many areas of MIT's curriculum, research, student life, and administrative
affairs,[160] the chair of each of MIT's 32 academic departments reports to
the dean of that department's school, who in turn reports to the Provost under
the President.[161] The current president is L. Rafael Reif, who formerly
served as provost under President Susan Hockfield, the first woman to hold the
post.[162][163]

## Academics[edit]

MIT is a large, highly residential, research university with a majority of
enrollments in graduate and professional programs.[164] The university has
been accredited by the New England Association of Schools and Colleges since
1929.[165][166] MIT operates on a 4–1–4 academic calendar with the fall
semester beginning after Labor Day and ending in mid-December, a 4-week
"Independent Activities Period" in the month of January, and the spring
semester beginning in early February and ending in late May.[167]

MIT students refer to both their majors and classes using numbers or acronyms
alone.[168] Departments and their corresponding majors are numbered in the
approximate order of their foundation; for example, Civil and Environmental
Engineering is Course 1, while Linguistics and Philosophy is Course 24.[169]
Students majoring in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science (EECS), the
most popular department, collectively identify themselves as "Course 6". MIT
students use a combination of the department's course number and the number
assigned to the class to identify their subjects; the introductory calculus-
based classical mechanics course is simply "8.01" at MIT.[170][c]

### Undergraduate program[edit]

The four-year, full-time undergraduate program maintains a balance between
professional majors and those in the arts and sciences, and has been dubbed
"most selective" by _U.S. News_ ,[173] admitting few transfer students[164]
and 8.0% of its applicants in the 2015 admissions cycle.[174] MIT offers 44
undergraduate degrees across its five schools.[175] In the 2010–2011 academic
year, 1,161 bachelor of science degrees (abbreviated "SB") were granted, the
only type of undergraduate degree MIT now awards.[ _needs update_ ][176][177]
In the 2011 fall term, among students who had designated a major, the School
of Engineering was the most popular division, enrolling 63% of students in its
19 degree programs, followed by the School of Science (29%), School of
Humanities, Arts, & Social Sciences (3.7%), Sloan School of Management (3.3%),
and School of Architecture and Planning (2%).[ _needs update_ ] The largest
undergraduate degree programs were in Electrical Engineering and Computer
Science (Course 6–2), Computer Science and Engineering (Course 6–3),
Mechanical Engineering (Course 2), Physics (Course 8), and Mathematics (Course
18).[171]

The Infinite Corridor is the primary passageway through campus

All undergraduates are required to complete a core curriculum called the
General Institute Requirements (GIRs).[178] The Science Requirement, generally
completed during freshman year as prerequisites for classes in science and
engineering majors, comprises two semesters of physics, two semesters of
calculus, one semester of chemistry, and one semester of biology. There is a
Laboratory Requirement, usually satisfied by an appropriate class in a course
major. The Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences (HASS) Requirement consists
of eight semesters of classes in the humanities, arts, and social sciences,
including at least one semester from each division as well as the courses
required for a designated concentration in a HASS division. Under the
Communication Requirement, two of the HASS classes, plus two of the classes
taken in the designated major must be "communication-intensive",[179]
including "substantial instruction and practice in oral presentation".[180]
Finally, all students are required to complete a swimming test;[181] non-
varsity athletes must also take four quarters of physical education
classes.[178]

Most classes rely on a combination of lectures, recitations led by associate
professors or graduate students, weekly problem sets ("p-sets"), and periodic
quizzes or tests. While the pace and difficulty of MIT coursework has been
compared to "drinking from a fire hose",[182][183] the freshmen retention rate
at MIT is similar to other research universities.[173] The "pass/no-record"
grading system relieves some pressure for first-year undergraduates. For each
class taken in the fall term, freshmen transcripts will either report only
that the class was passed, or otherwise not have any record of it. In the
spring term, passing grades (A, B, C) appear on the transcript while non-
passing grades are again not recorded.[184] (Grading had previously been
"pass/no record" all freshman year, but was amended for the Class of 2006 to
prevent students from gaming the system by completing required major classes
in their freshman year.[185]) Also, freshmen may choose to join alternative
learning communities, such as Experimental Study Group, Concourse, or
Terrascope.[184]

In 1969, Margaret MacVicar founded the Undergraduate Research Opportunities
Program (UROP) to enable undergraduates to collaborate directly with faculty
members and researchers. Students join or initiate research projects ("UROPs")
for academic credit, pay, or on a volunteer basis through postings on the UROP
website or by contacting faculty members directly.[186] A substantial majority
of undergraduates participate.[187][188] Students often become published, file
patent applications, and/or launch start-up companies based upon their
experience in UROPs.[189][190]

In 1970, the then-Dean of Institute Relations, Benson R. Snyder, published
_The Hidden Curriculum,_ arguing that education at MIT was often slighted in
favor of following a set of unwritten expectations, and that graduating with
good grades was more often the product of figuring out the system rather than
a solid education. The successful student, according to Snyder, was the one
who was able to discern which of the formal requirements were to be ignored in
favor of which unstated norms. For example, organized student groups had
compiled "course bibles"—collections of problem-set and examination questions
and answers for later students to use as references. This sort of
gamesmanship, Snyder argued, hindered development of a creative intellect and
contributed to student discontent and unrest.[191][192]

###  Graduate program[edit]

MIT's graduate program has high coexistence with the undergraduate program,
and many courses are taken by qualified students at both levels. MIT offers a
comprehensive doctoral program with degrees in the humanities, social
sciences, and STEM fields as well as professional degrees.[164] The Institute
offers graduate programs leading to academic degrees such as the Master of
Science (which is abbreviated as SM at MIT), various Engineer's Degrees,
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD), and Doctor of Science (ScD) and interdisciplinary
graduate programs such as the MD-PhD (with Harvard Medical
School).[193][194][195]

Admission to graduate programs is decentralized; applicants apply directly to
the department or degree program. More than 90% of doctoral students are
supported by fellowships, research assistantships (RAs), or teaching
assistantships (TAs).[196]

MIT awarded 1,547 master's degrees and 609 doctoral degrees in the academic
year 2010–11.[ _needs update_ ][176] In the 2011 fall term, the School of
Engineering was the most popular academic division, enrolling 45.0% of
graduate students, followed by the Sloan School of Management (19%), School of
Science (16.9%), School of Architecture and Planning (9.2%), Whitaker College
of Health Sciences (5.1%),[d] and School of Humanities, Arts, and Social
Sciences (4.7%). The largest graduate degree programs were the Sloan MBA,
Electrical Engineering and Computer Science, and Mechanical Engineering.[171]

### Rankings[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[197] |  4  
_Forbes_[198] |  5  
_U.S. News& World Report_[199] |  7  
_Washington Monthly_[200] |  3  
Global  
_ARWU_[201] |  5  
_QS_[202] |  1  
_Times_[203] |  5  
_U.S. News& World Report_[204] |  2  
  
MIT also places among the top ten in many overall rankings of universities
(see right) and rankings based on students' revealed
preferences.[205][206][207] For several years, _U.S. News& World Report_ , the
QS World University Rankings, and the Academic Ranking of World Universities
have ranked MIT's School of Engineering first, as did the 1995 National
Research Council report.[208] In the same lists, MIT's strongest showings
apart from in engineering are in computer science, the natural sciences,
business, architecture, economics, linguistics, mathematics, and, to a lesser
extent, political science and philosophy.[10][11][12][13][14]

In 2014, _Money_ magazine ranked MIT as third in the US "Best Colleges for
Your Money", based on its assessment of "the most bang for your tuition buck",
factoring in quality of education, affordability, and career outcomes.[209] As
of 2014[update] , _Forbes_ magazine rated MIT as the second "Most
Entrepreneurial University", based on the percentage of alumni and students
self-identifying as founders or business owners on LinkedIn.[210] In 2015,
Brookings Fellow Jonathan Rothwell issued a report "Beyond College Rankings",
placing MIT as third in the US, with an estimated 45% value-added to mid-
career salary.[211]

Times Higher Education has recognized MIT as one of the world's "six super
brands" on its _World Reputation Rankings_ , along with Berkeley, Cambridge,
Harvard, Oxford and Stanford.[212]

### Collaborations[edit]

Eero Saarinen's Kresge Auditorium (1955) is a classic example of post-war
architecture

The university historically pioneered research and training collaborations
between academia, industry and government.[213][214]  In 1946, President
Compton, Harvard Business School professor Georges Doriot, and Massachusetts
Investor Trust chairman Merrill Grisswold founded American Research and
Development Corporation, the first American venture-capital firm.[215][216]
In 1948, Compton established the MIT Industrial Liaison Program.[217]
Throughout the late 1980s and early 1990s, American politicians and business
leaders accused MIT and other universities of contributing to a declining
economy by transferring taxpayer-funded research and technology to
international – especially Japanese – firms that were competing with
struggling American businesses.[218][219] On the other hand, MIT's extensive
collaboration with the federal government on research projects has led to
several MIT leaders serving as presidential scientific advisers since 1940.[e]
MIT established a Washington Office in 1991 to continue effective lobbying for
research funding and national science policy.[221][222]

The U.S. Justice Department began an investigation in 1989, and in 1991 filed
an antitrust suit against MIT, the eight Ivy League colleges, and eleven other
institutions for allegedly engaging in price-fixing during their annual
"Overlap Meetings", which were held to prevent bidding wars over promising
prospective students from consuming funds for need-based
scholarships.[223][224] While the Ivy League institutions settled,[225] MIT
contested the charges, arguing that the practice was not anti-competitive
because it ensured the availability of aid for the greatest number of
students.[226][227] MIT ultimately prevailed when the Justice Department
dropped the case in 1994.[228][229]

Walker Memorial is a monument to MIT's fourth president, Francis Amasa Walker

MIT main campus seen from Vassar Street, as The Great Dome is visible in the
distance and the Stata Center is at right

MIT's proximity[f] to Harvard University ("the other school up the river") has
led to a substantial number of research collaborations such as the Harvard-MIT
Division of Health Sciences and Technology and the Broad Institute.[230] In
addition, students at the two schools can cross-register for credits toward
their own school's degrees without any additional fees.[230] A cross-
registration program between MIT and Wellesley College has also existed since
1969, and in 2002 the Cambridge–MIT Institute launched an undergraduate
exchange program between MIT and the University of Cambridge.[230] MIT has
more modest cross-registration programs with Boston University, Brandeis
University, Tufts University, Massachusetts College of Art and the School of
the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston.[230]

MIT maintains substantial research and faculty ties with independent research
organizations in the Boston area, such as the Charles Stark Draper Laboratory,
the Whitehead Institute for Biomedical Research, and the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution. Ongoing international research and educational
collaborations include the Amsterdam Institute for Advanced Metropolitan
Solutions (AMS Institute), Singapore-MIT Alliance, MIT-Politecnico di
Milano,[230][231] MIT-Zaragoza International Logistics Program, and projects
in other countries through the MIT International Science and Technology
Initiatives (MISTI) program.[230][232]

The mass-market magazine _Technology Review_ is published by MIT through a
subsidiary company, as is a special edition that also serves as an alumni
magazine.[233][234] The MIT Press is a major university press, publishing over
200 books and 30 journals annually, emphasizing science and technology as well
as arts, architecture, new media, current events and social issues.[235]

###  Libraries, collections and museums[edit]

See also: Massachusetts Institute of Technology Libraries and Campus of the
Massachusetts Institute of Technology § Artwork

The MIT library system consists of five subject libraries: Barker
(Engineering), Dewey (Economics), Hayden (Humanities and Science), Lewis
(Music), and Rotch (Arts and Architecture). There are also various specialized
libraries and archives. The libraries contain more than 2.9 million printed
volumes, 2.4 million microforms, 49,000 print or electronic journal
subscriptions, and 670 reference databases. The past decade has seen a trend
of increased focus on digital over print resources in the libraries.[236]
Notable collections include the Lewis Music Library with an emphasis on 20th
and 21st-century music and electronic music,[237] the List Visual Arts
Center's rotating exhibitions of contemporary art,[238] and the Compton
Gallery's cross-disciplinary exhibitions.[239] MIT allocates a percentage of
the budget for all new construction and renovation to commission and support
its extensive public art and outdoor sculpture collection.[240][241]

The MIT Museum was founded in 1971 and collects, preserves, and exhibits
artifacts significant to the culture and history of MIT. The museum now
engages in significant educational outreach programs for the general public,
including the annual Cambridge Science Festival, the first celebration of this
kind in the United States. Since 2005, its official mission has been, "to
engage the wider community with MIT's science, technology and other areas of
scholarship in ways that will best serve the nation and the world in the 21st
century".[242]

### Research[edit]

MIT was elected to the Association of American Universities in 1934 and
remains a research university with a very high level of research
activity;[47][164] research expenditures totaled $718.2 million in 2009.[
_needs update_ ][243] The federal government was the largest source of
sponsored research, with the Department of Health and Human Services granting
$255.9 million, Department of Defense $97.5 million, Department of Energy
$65.8 million, National Science Foundation $61.4 million, and NASA $27.4
million.[243] MIT employs approximately 1300 researchers in addition to
faculty.[244] In 2011, MIT faculty and researchers disclosed 632 inventions,
were issued 153 patents, earned $85.4 million in cash income, and received
$69.6 million in royalties.[245] Through programs like the Deshpande Center,
MIT faculty leverage their research and discoveries into multi-million-dollar
commercial ventures.[246]

In electronics, magnetic core memory, radar, single electron transistors, and
inertial guidance controls were invented or substantially developed by MIT
researchers.[247][248] Harold Eugene Edgerton was a pioneer in high speed
photography and sonar.[249][250] Claude E. Shannon developed much of modern
information theory and discovered the application of Boolean logic to digital
circuit design theory.[251] In the domain of computer science, MIT faculty and
researchers made fundamental contributions to cybernetics, artificial
intelligence, computer languages, machine learning, robotics, and
cryptography.[248][252] At least nine Turing Award laureates and seven
recipients of the Draper Prize in engineering have been or are currently
associated with MIT.[253][254]

Current and previous physics faculty have won eight Nobel Prizes,[255] four
Dirac Medals,[256] and three Wolf Prizes predominantly for their contributions
to subatomic and quantum theory.[257] Members of the chemistry department have
been awarded three Nobel Prizes and one Wolf Prize for the discovery of novel
syntheses and methods.[255] MIT biologists have been awarded six Nobel Prizes
for their contributions to genetics, immunology, oncology, and molecular
biology.[255] Professor Eric Lander was one of the principal leaders of the
Human Genome Project.[258][259] Positronium atoms,[260] synthetic
penicillin,[261] synthetic self-replicating molecules,[262] and the genetic
bases for Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (also known as ALS or Lou Gehrig's
disease) and Huntington's disease were first discovered at MIT.[263] Jerome
Lettvin transformed the study of cognitive science with his paper "What the
frog's eye tells the frog's brain".[264] Researchers developed a system to
convert MRI scans into 3D printed physical models.[265]

In the domain of humanities, arts, and social sciences, MIT economists have
been awarded five Nobel Prizes and nine John Bates Clark Medals.[255][266]
Linguists Noam Chomsky and Morris Halle authored seminal texts on generative
grammar and phonology.[267][268] The MIT Media Lab, founded in 1985 within the
School of Architecture and Planning and known for its unconventional
research,[269][270] has been home to influential researchers such as
constructivist educator and Logo creator Seymour Papert.[271]

Spanning many of the above fields, MacArthur Fellowships (the so-called
"Genius Grants") have been awarded to 38 people associated with MIT.[272] Four
Pulitzer Prize–winning writers currently work at or have retired from
MIT.[273] Four current or former faculty are members of the American Academy
of Arts and Letters.[274]

Allegations of research misconduct or improprieties have received substantial
press coverage. Professor David Baltimore, a Nobel Laureate, became embroiled
in a misconduct investigation starting in 1986 that led to Congressional
hearings in 1991.[275][276] Professor Ted Postol has accused the MIT
administration since 2000 of attempting to whitewash potential research
misconduct at the Lincoln Lab facility involving a ballistic missile defense
test, though a final investigation into the matter has not been
completed.[277][278] Associate Professor Luk Van Parijs was dismissed in 2005
following allegations of scientific misconduct and found guilty of the same by
the United States Office of Research Integrity in 2009.[279][280]

## Discoveries and innovation[edit]

The GNU project and free software movement originated at MIT

### Natural sciences[edit]

  * Oncogene – Robert Weinberg discovered genetic basis of human cancer.[281]
  * Reverse transcription – David Baltimore independently isolated, in 1970 at MIT, two RNA tumour viruses: R-MLV and again RSV.[282]

### Computer and applied sciences[edit]

  * Akamai Technologies – Daniel Lewin and Tom Leighton discovered and developed a faster content delivery network and is one of the world's largest distributed computing platforms, responsible for serving between 15 and 30 percent of all web traffic.[283]
  * Cryptography – MIT researchers Ron Rivest, Adi Shamir and Leonard Adleman developed one of the first practical public-key cryptosystems and started a company RSA (cryptosystem).
  * Electronic ink – developed by Joseph Jacobson at MIT Media Lab.[284]
  * Emacs (text editor) – development began during the 1970s at the MIT AI Lab.
  * Flight recorder (black box) – Charles Stark Draper developed the black box at MIT's Instrumentation Laboratory. That lab later made the Apollo Moon landings possible through the Apollo Guidance Computer it designed for NASA.
  * GNU Project – Richard Stallman formally founded the free software movement in 1983 by launching the GNU Project at MIT.[285][286][287]
  * Lisp (programming language) – John McCarthy invented lisp in 1958 while he was at (MIT). McCarthy published its design in a paper in _Communications of the ACM_ in 1960, entitled "Recursive Functions of Symbolic Expressions and Their Computation by Machine, Part I".[288]
  * Lithium-ion battery efficiencies – Yet-Ming Chiang and his group at MIT showed a substantial improvement in the performance of lithium batteries by boosting the material's conductivity by doping it[289] with aluminium, niobium and zirconium.
  * MIT OpenCourseWare – the OpenCourseWare movement started in 1999 when the University of Tübingen in Germany published videos of lectures online for its _timms_ initiative (Tübinger Internet Multimedia Server).[290] The OCW movement only took off, however, with the launch of MIT OpenCourseWare and the Open Learning Initiative at Carnegie Mellon University[291] in October 2002. The movement was soon reinforced by the launch of similar projects at Yale, Utah State University, the University of Michigan and the University of California Berkeley.
  * Perdix micro-drone – autonomous drone that uses artificial intelligence to swarm with many other Perdix drones.[292]
  * Project MAC – groundbreaking research in operating systems, artificial intelligence, and the theory of computation. DARPA funded project.
  * Radar – developed at MIT's Radiation Laboratory during World War II.
  * SKETCHPAD – invented by Ivan Sutherland as his thesis for his PhD at MIT. It pioneered the way for human–computer interaction (HCI).[293] Sketchpad is considered to be the ancestor of modern computer-aided design (CAD) programs as well as a major breakthrough in the development of computer graphics in general.
  * VisiCalc – was the first spreadsheet computer program for personal computers, originally released for the Apple II by VisiCorp. MIT alum Dan Bricklin and Bob Frankston rented time sharing at night on an MIT mainframe computer (that cost $1/hr for use).
  * World Wide Web Consortium – founded in 1994 by Tim Berners-Lee, (W3C) is the main international standards organization for the World Wide Web[294]

###  Companies and entrepreneurship[edit]

Main article: List of companies founded by MIT alumni

MIT alumni and faculty have founded numerous companies, some of which are
shown below.[295][296]

  * Bose Corporation, 1964, founder Amar Bose (B.S., PhD).
  * Buzzfeed, 2006, co-founder Jonah Peretti (M.S).
  * Dropbox, 2007, founders Drew Houston (B.S) and Arash Ferdowsi (drop out).
  * E*Trade, 1982, co-founder William A. Porter (M.B.A).
  * Hewlett-Packard, 1939, co-founder William R. Hewlett (M.S).
  * _HuffPost,_ 2005, co-founder Jonah Peretti (M.S).
  * Intel, 1968, co-founder Robert Royce (PhD).
  * Koch Industries, 1940, founder Fred C. Koch (B.S).
  * Qualcomm, 1985, co-founders Irwin M. Jacobs (M.S., PhD) and Andrew Viterbi (B.S, M.S).
  * Raytheon, 1922, co-founder Vannevar Bush (Professor).
  * Renaissance Technologies, 1982, founder James Simons (B.S).
  * TSMC, 1987, founder Morris Chang (B.S., M.S).
  * VMware, 1998, co-founder Diane Greene (M.S).
  * Zipcar, 2000, co-founder Robin Chase (M.B.A).

##  Traditions and student activities[edit]

Main articles: Traditions and student activities at MIT and MIT class ring

See also: MIT in popular culture

The faculty and student body place a high value on meritocracy and on
technical proficiency.[297][298] MIT has never awarded an honorary degree, nor
does it award athletic scholarships, ad eundem degrees, or Latin honors upon
graduation.[299] However, MIT has twice awarded honorary professorships: to
Winston Churchill in 1949 and Salman Rushdie in 1993.[300]

Many upperclass students and alumni wear a large, heavy, distinctive class
ring known as the "Brass Rat".[301][302] Originally created in 1929, the
ring's official name is the "Standard Technology Ring."[303] The undergraduate
ring design (a separate graduate student version exists as well) varies
slightly from year to year to reflect the unique character of the MIT
experience for that class, but always features a three-piece design, with the
MIT seal and the class year each appearing on a separate face, flanking a
large rectangular bezel bearing an image of a beaver.[301] The initialism
IHTFP, representing the informal school motto "I Hate This Fucking Place" and
jocularly euphemized as "I Have Truly Found Paradise," "Institute Has The
Finest Professors," "It's Hard to Fondle Penguins," and other variations, has
occasionally been featured on the ring given its historical prominence in
student culture.[304]

### Activities[edit]

Main article: Traditions and student activities at MIT

See also: Hacks at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology

The start of the MIT Mystery Hunt in 2007

MIT has over 500 recognized student activity groups,[305] including a campus
radio station, _The Tech_ student newspaper, an annual entrepreneurship
competition, and weekly screenings of popular films by the Lecture Series
Committee. Less traditional activities include the "world's largest open-shelf
collection of science fiction" in English, a model railroad club, and a
vibrant folk dance scene. Students, faculty, and staff are involved in over 50
educational outreach and public service programs through the MIT Museum,
Edgerton Center, and MIT Public Service Center.[306]

The Independent Activities Period is a four-week-long "term" offering hundreds
of optional classes, lectures, demonstrations, and other activities throughout
the month of January between the Fall and Spring semesters. Some of the most
popular recurring IAP activities are the 6.270, 6.370, and MasLab
competitions,[307] the annual "mystery hunt",[308] and Charm School.[309][310]
More than 250 students pursue externships annually at companies in the US and
abroad.[311][312]

Many MIT students also engage in "hacking", which encompasses both the
physical exploration of areas that are generally off-limits (such as rooftops
and steam tunnels), as well as elaborate practical jokes.[313][314] Recent
high-profile hacks have included the abduction of Caltech's cannon,[315]
reconstructing a Wright Flyer atop the Great Dome,[316] and adorning the John
Harvard statue with the Master Chief's Mjölnir Helmet.[317]

### Athletics[edit]

Main article: MIT Engineers

The Zesiger sports and fitness center houses a two-story fitness center as
well as swimming and diving pools

MIT sponsors 31 varsity sports and has one of the three broadest NCAA Division
III athletic programs.[318][319]  MIT participates in the NCAA's Division III,
the New England Women's and Men's Athletic Conference, the New England
Football Conference, NCAA's Division I Eastern Association of Women's Rowing
Colleges (EAWRC) for women's crew, and the Collegiate Water Polo Association
(CWPA) for Men's Water Polo. Men's crew competes outside the NCAA in the
Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges (EARC). In April 2009, budget cuts led
to MIT eliminating eight of its 41 sports, including the mixed men's and
women's teams in alpine skiing and pistol; separate teams for men and women in
ice hockey and gymnastics; and men's programs in golf and wrestling.[320][321]

## People[edit]

### Students[edit]

_Demographics of MIT student body_[171][322][323] |  Undergraduate | Graduate  
---|---|---  
White American | 34% | 40.8%  
Asian American | 30% | 9.4%  
Hispanic American | 15% | 3.3%  
African American | 10% | 2.1%  
Native American | 1.0% | 0.4%  
Other/International | 8% | 44.0%  
  
MIT enrolled 4,384 undergraduates and 6,510 graduate students in 2011–2012.[
_needs update_ ][171] Women constituted 45 percent of undergraduate students.[
_needs update_ ][171][324] Undergraduate and graduate students came from all
50 U.S. states as well as from.[325]

MIT received 17,909 applications for admission to the undergraduate Class of
2015: it admitted 1,742 (9.7 percent) and enrolled 1,128 (64.8 percent).[
_needs update_ ][143] 19,446 applications were received for graduate and
advanced degree programs across all departments; 2,991 were admitted (15.4
percent) and 1,880 enrolled (62.8 percent).[ _needs update_ ][326]

The interquartile range on the SAT was 2090–2340 and 97 percent of students
ranked in the top tenth of their high school graduating class.[ _needs update_
][143] 97 percent of the Class of 2012 returned as sophomores; 82 percent of
the Class of 2007 graduated within 4 years, and 93 percent (91 percent of the
men and 95 percent of the women) graduated within 6 years.[143][327]

Undergraduate tuition and fees total $40,732 per student and annual expenses
are estimated[ _by whom?_ ] at $52,507 as of 2012[update].[ _needs update_ ]
62 percent of students received need-based financial aid in the form of
scholarships and grants from federal, state, institutional, and external
sources averaging $38,964 per student.[ _needs update_ ][328] Students were
awarded a total of $102 million in scholarships and grants, primarily from
institutional support ($84 million).[143] The annual increase in expenses has
led to a student tradition (dating back to the 1960s) of tongue-in-cheek
"tuition riots".[329]

MIT has been nominally co-educational since admitting Ellen Swallow Richards
in 1870. Richards also became the first female member of MIT's faculty,
specializing in sanitary chemistry.[330][331] Female students remained a
minority prior to the completion of the first wing of a women's dormitory,
McCormick Hall, in 1963.[332][333][334] Between 1993 and 2009 the proportion
of women rose from 34 percent to 45 percent of undergraduates and from 20
percent to 31 percent of graduate students.[171][335] Women currently[ _when?_
] outnumber men in Biology, Brain & Cognitive Sciences, Architecture, Urban
Planning and Biological Engineering.[171][324]

A number of student deaths in the late 1990s and early 2000s resulted in
considerable media attention focussing on MIT's culture and student
life.[336][337] After the alcohol-related death of Scott Krueger in September
1997 as a new member at the Phi Gamma Delta fraternity,[338] MIT began
requiring all freshmen to live in the dormitory system.[338][339] The 2000
suicide of MIT undergraduate Elizabeth Shin drew attention to suicides at MIT
and created a controversy over whether MIT had an unusually high suicide
rate.[340][341] In late 2001 a task force's recommended improvements in
student mental health services were implemented,[342][343] including expanding
staff and operating hours at the mental health center.[344] These and later
cases were significant as well because they sought to prove the negligence and
liability of university administrators _in loco parentis_.[340]

###  Faculty and staff[edit]

Main article: List of Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty

Institute Professors Emeriti and Nobel Laureates (from left to right) Franco
Modigliani (deceased), Paul Samuelson (also deceased), and Robert Solow
(picture taken in 2000)

As of 2013[update], MIT had 1,030 faculty members, of whom 225 were women.[4]
Faculty are responsible for lecturing classes, advising both graduate and
undergraduate students, and sitting on academic committees, as well as
conducting original research. Between 1964 and 2009, a total of seventeen
faculty and staff members affiliated with MIT were awarded Nobel Prizes
(thirteen in the last 25 years).[345] MIT faculty members past or present have
won a total of twenty-seven Nobel Prizes, the majority in Economics or
Physics.[346] As of October 2013[update], among current faculty and teaching
staff there are 67 Guggenheim Fellows, 6 Fulbright Scholars, and 22 MacArthur
Fellows.[4] Faculty members who have made extraordinary contributions to their
research field as well as the MIT community are granted appointments as
Institute Professors for the remainder of their tenures.

A 1998 MIT study concluded that a systemic bias against female faculty existed
in its School of Science,[347] although the study's methods were
controversial.[348][349] Since the study, though, women have headed
departments within the Schools of Science and of Engineering, and MIT has
appointed several female vice presidents, although allegations of sexism
continue to be made.[350] Susan Hockfield, a molecular neurobiologist, was
MIT's president from 2004 to 2012 and was the first woman to hold the
post.[163]

Tenure outcomes have vaulted MIT into the national spotlight on several
occasions. The 1984 dismissal of David F. Noble, a historian of technology,
became a _cause célèbre_ about the extent to which academics are granted
freedom of speech after he published several books and papers critical of
MIT's and other research universities' reliance upon financial support from
corporations and the military.[351] Former materials science professor
Gretchen Kalonji sued MIT in 1994 alleging that she was denied tenure because
of sexual discrimination. Several years later, the lawsuit was settled with
undisclosed payments, and establishment of a project to encourage women and
minorities to seek faculty positions.[350][352][353] In 1997, the
Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimination issued a probable cause
finding supporting UMass Boston Professor James Jennings' allegations of
racial discrimination after a senior faculty search committee in the
Department of Urban Studies and Planning did not offer him reciprocal
tenure.[354]

In 2006–2007, MIT's denial of tenure to African-American stem cell scientist
professor James Sherley reignited accusations of racism in the tenure process,
eventually leading to a protracted public dispute with the administration, a
brief hunger strike, and the resignation of Professor Frank L. Douglas in
protest.[355][356] _The Boston Globe_ reported on February 6, 2007: "Less than
half of MIT's junior faculty members are granted tenure. After Sherley was
initially denied tenure, his case was examined three times before the
university established that neither racial discrimination nor conflict of
interest affected the decision. Twenty-one of Sherley's colleagues later
issued a statement saying that the professor was treated fairly in tenure
review."[357]

MIT faculty members have often been recruited to lead other colleges and
universities. Founding faculty member Charles W. Eliot was recruited in 1869
to become president of Harvard University, a post he would hold for 40 years,
during which he wielded considerable influence on both American higher
education and secondary education. MIT alumnus and faculty member George
Ellery Hale played a central role in the development of the California
Institute of Technology (Caltech), and other faculty members have been key
founders of Franklin W. Olin College of Engineering in nearby Needham,
Massachusetts.

As of 2014[update], former provost Robert A. Brown is president of Boston
University; former provost Mark Wrighton is chancellor of Washington
University in St. Louis; former associate provost Alice Gast is president of
Lehigh University; and former professor Suh Nam-pyo is president of KAIST.
Former dean of the School of Science Robert J. Birgeneau was the chancellor of
the University of California, Berkeley (2004–2013); former professor John
Maeda was president of Rhode Island School of Design (RISD, 2008–2013); former
professor David Baltimore was president of Caltech (1997–2006); and MIT
alumnus and former assistant professor Hans Mark served as chancellor of the
University of Texas system (1984–1992).

In addition, faculty members have been recruited to lead governmental
agencies; for example, former professor Marcia McNutt is president of the
National Academy of Sciences,[358] urban studies professor Xavier de Souza
Briggs is currently the associate director of the White House Office of
Management and Budget,[359] and biology professor Eric Lander was a co-chair
of the President's Council of Advisors on Science and Technology.[360] In
2013, faculty member Ernest Moniz was nominated by President Obama and later
confirmed as United States Secretary of Energy.[361][362] Former professor
Hans Mark served as Secretary of the Air Force from 1979 to 1981. Alumna and
Institute Professor Sheila Widnall served as Secretary of the Air Force
between 1993 and 1997, making her the first female Secretary of the Air Force
and first woman to lead an entire branch of the US military in the Department
of Defense.

As of 2017[update], MIT was the second-largest employer in the city of
Cambridge.[123] Based on feedback from employees, MIT was ranked #7 as a place
to work, among US colleges and universities as of 2013[update].[363] Surveys
cited a "smart", "creative", "friendly" environment, noting that the work-life
balance tilts towards a "strong work ethic" but complaining about "low pay"
compared to an industry position.[364]

### Notable alumni[edit]

Main article: List of Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni

Many of MIT's over 120,000 alumni have had considerable success in scientific
research, public service, education, and business. As of 2014[update], 27 MIT
alumni have won the Nobel Prize, 47 have been selected as Rhodes Scholars, and
61 have been selected as Marshall Scholars.[365]

Alumni in American politics and public service include former Chairman of the
Federal Reserve Ben Bernanke, former MA-1 Representative John Olver, former
CA-13 Representative Pete Stark, former National Economic Council chairman
Lawrence H. Summers, and former Council of Economic Advisors chairwoman
Christina Romer. MIT alumni in international politics include Foreign Affairs
Minister of Iran Ali Akbar Salehi, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu,
President of Colombia Virgilio Barco Vargas, President of the European Central
Bank Mario Draghi, former Governor of the Reserve Bank of India Raghuram
Rajan, former British Foreign Minister David Miliband, former Greek Prime
Minister Lucas Papademos, former UN Secretary General Kofi Annan, former Iraqi
Deputy Prime Minister Ahmed Chalabi, former Minister of Education and Culture
of The Republic of Indonesia Yahya Muhaimin.

MIT alumni founded or co-founded many notable companies, such as Intel,
McDonnell Douglas, Texas Instruments, 3Com, Qualcomm, Bose, Raytheon, Apotex,
Koch Industries, Rockwell International, Genentech, Dropbox, and Campbell
Soup. According to the British newspaper, _The Guardian_ , "a survey of living
MIT alumni found that they have formed 25,800 companies, employing more than
three million people including about a quarter of the workforce of Silicon
Valley. Those firms collectively generate global revenues of about $1.9
trillion (£1.2 trillion) a year. If MIT were a country, it would have the 11th
highest GDP of any nation in the world."[366][367][368]

Prominent institutions of higher education have been led by MIT alumni,
including the University of California system, Harvard University, New York
Institute of Technology, Johns Hopkins University, Carnegie Mellon University,
Tufts University, Rochester Institute of Technology, Rhode Island School of
Design (RISD), Northeastern University, Lahore University of Management
Sciences, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Tecnológico de Monterrey, Purdue
University, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, KAIST, and Quaid-e-Azam
University. Berklee College of Music, the largest independent college of
contemporary music in the world, was founded and led by MIT alumnus Lawrence
Berk for more than three decades.

More than one third of the United States' manned spaceflights have included
MIT-educated astronauts (among them Apollo 11 Lunar Module Pilot Buzz Aldrin),
more than any university excluding the United States service academies.[369]
Alumnus and former faculty member Qian Xuesen was instrumental in the PRC
rocket program.[370]

Noted alumni in non-scientific fields include author Hugh Lofting,[371]
sculptor Daniel Chester French, guitarist Tom Scholz of the band Boston, the
British _BBC_ and _ITN_ correspondent and political advisor David Walter, _The
New York Times_ columnist and Nobel Prize Winning economist Paul Krugman, _The
Bell Curve_ author Charles Murray, United States Supreme Court building
architect Cass Gilbert,[372] Pritzker Prize-winning architects I.M. Pei and
Gordon Bunshaft.

  * Apollo 11 astronaut Buzz Aldrin, ScD 1963 (Aero & Astro)

  * Former UN Secretary-General Kofi Annan, SM 1972 (Management)

  * President of Colombia 1986-1990 Virgilio Barco Vargas, SB 1943 (Civil Engineering)

  * Former Federal Reserve Bank chairman Ben Bernanke, PhD 1979 (Economics)

  * Physicist Nobel laureate Richard Feynman, SB 1939 (Physics)

  * Economics Nobel laureate Paul Krugman, PhD 1977 (Economics)

  * Biologist, suffragist, philanthropist Katherine Dexter McCormick (left), SB 1904 (Biology)

  * Challenger astronaut and physicist Ronald McNair, PhD 1976 (Physics)

  * Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu, SB 1975 (Architecture), SM 1976 (Management)

  * Architect I. M. Pei, BArch 1940 (Architecture)

  * CEO of General Motors Alfred P. Sloan, SB 1895 (Electrical Engineering)

  * "Boston" guitarist Tom Scholz, SB 1969, SM 1970 (Mechanical Engineering)

  

## See also[edit]

  * Boston portal
  * Massachusetts portal
  * University portal

  * The Coop, campus bookstore
  * Engineering
  * Glossary of engineering

## References[edit]

### Notes[edit]

  1. **^** The friezes of the marble-clad buildings surrounding Killian Court are carved in large Roman letters with the names of Aristotle, Newton, Pasteur, Lavoisier, Faraday, Archimedes, da Vinci, Darwin, and Copernicus; each of these names is surmounted by a cluster of appropriately related names in smaller letters. Lavoisier, for example, is placed in the company of Boyle, Cavendish, Priestley, Dalton, Gay Lussac, Berzelius, Woehler, Liebig, Bunsen, Mendelejeff [ _sic_ ], Perkin, and van't Hoff.[129][130]
  2. **^** The Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology (HST) offers joint MD, MD-PhD, or Medical Engineering degrees in collaboration with Harvard Medical School.[159]
  3. **^** Course numbers are sometimes presented in Roman numerals, e.g. "Course XVIII" for mathematics.[171] At least one MIT style guide now discourages this usage.[172] Also, some Course numbers have been re-assigned over time, so that the subject area of a degree may depend on the year it was awarded.[169]
  4. **^** Figure includes 196 students working on Harvard degrees only.
  5. **^** Vannevar Bush was the director of the Office of Scientific Research and Development and general advisor to Franklin D. Roosevelt and Harry Truman, James Rhyne Killian was Special Assistant for Science and Technology for Dwight D. Eisenhower, and Jerome Wiesner advised John F. Kennedy and Lyndon Johnson.[220]
  6. **^** MIT's Building 7 and Harvard's Johnston Gate, the traditional entrances to each school, are 1.72 miles (2.77 km) apart along Massachusetts Avenue.

### Citations[edit]

  1. **^** "Symbols: Seal". _MIT Graphic Identity_. MIT. Retrieved  September 8, 2010. 
  2. **^** NAICU – Member Directory Archived November 9, 2015, at the Wayback Machine.
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Faculty and Staff". _MIT Facts_. MIT. Retrieved  2014-03-11. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Enrollment Statistics". MIT Registrar. Retrieved  September 13, 2014. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Campus". MIT Facts 2012. Retrieved  May 31, 2012. 
  7. **^** "Top Ten MIT History Facts". Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Retrieved  August 9, 2017. 
  8. **^** "The Official Site of MIT Intercollegiate Athletics - MIT". _mitathletics.com_.  
  9. **^** "Symbols: Mascot". _MIT Graphic Identity_. MIT. Retrieved  September 8, 2010. 
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Altaner, David (March 9, 2011). "Harvard, MIT Ranked Most Prestigious Universities, Study Reports". Bloomberg. Retrieved 2015-04-01. 
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Morgan, John. "Top Six Universities Dominate THE World Reputation Rankings". "The rankings suggest that the top six - Harvard University, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, the University of Cambridge, University of California, Berkeley, Stanford University and the University of Oxford - form a group of globally recognised "super brands". 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Massachusetts Institute of Technology". Encyclopedia.com.  It has long been recognized as an outstanding technological institute and its Sloan School of Management has notable programs in business, economics, and finance. 
  13. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Massachusetts Institute of Technology". Encyclopædia Britannica. Retrieved  November 18, 2014. Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), privately controlled coeducational institution of higher learning famous for its scientific and technological training and research. 
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "MIT undergraduate engineering again ranked No. 1". MIT News Office. August 17, 2010.  
  15. **^** "Entrepreneurial Impact The Role of MIT". _http://www.kauffman.org/_. Ewing Marion Kauffman Foundation. 2009-02-17. Retrieved  2015-06-02.  External link in `|work=` (help)
  16. **^** [Nobel total: 87 (List generated 10-07-2015) http://web.mit.edu/ir/pop/awards/nobel.html]
  17. **^** "Charter of the MIT Corporation". Retrieved  March 22, 2007. 
  18. **^** Kneeland, Samuel (March 1859). "Committee Report: Conservatory of Art and Science" (PDF). Massachusetts House of Representatives, House No. 260. 
  19. **^** "MIT Timeline". _MIT History_. MIT Institute Archives. Retrieved  2015-04-01. 
  20. **^** "Acts and Resolves of the General Court Relating to the Massachusetts Institute of Technology" (PDF). _MIT History_. MIT Institute Archives. Retrieved  May 29, 2012. 
  21. **^** "MIT Facts 2012: Origins and Leadership". _MIT Facts_. MIT. Retrieved  May 29, 2012. 
  22. **^** Rogers, William (1861). "Objects and Plan of an Institute of Technology: including a Society of Arts, a Museum of Arts, and a School of Industrial Science; proposed to be established in Boston" (PDF). The Committee of Associated Institutions of Science and Arts. 
  23. **^** Lewis 1949, p. 8.
  24. **^** "Letter from William Barton Rogers to His Brother Henry". Institute Archives, MIT. March 13, 1846. Retrieved  October 2, 2010. 
  25. **^** Angulo, A.J. _William Barton Rogers and the Idea of MIT_. The Johns Hopkins University Press. pp.  155–156. ISBN 0-8018-9033-0. 
  26. **^** Angulo, A.J. "The Initial Reception of MIT, 1860s–1880s". In Geiger, Roger L. _Perspectives on the History of Higher Education_. pp.  1–28. 
  27. **^** Andrews, Elizabeth; Murphy, Nora; Rosko, Tom (2000). "William Barton Rogers: MIT's Visionary Founder". MIT. 
  28. **^** Stratton, Julius Adams; Mannix, Loretta H. (2005). "The Land-Grant Act of 1862". _Mind and Hand: The Birth of MIT_. MIT Press. pp. 251–276. ISBN 0-262-19524-0.  
  29. **^** "Morrill Act:Primary Documents of American History". _Library of Congress_. 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2016. 
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Prescott, Samuel C (1954). _When M.I.T. Was "Boston Tech", 1861–1916_. MIT Press.  
  31. **^** Angulo, A.J. _William Barton Rogers and the Idea of MIT_. The Johns Hopkins University Press. pp.  155–156. ISBN 0-8018-9033-0. 
  32. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dunbar, Charles F. (July 1897). "The Career of Francis Amasa Walker". _Quarterly Journal of Economics_. **11** (4): 446–447. doi:10.2307/1880719. JSTOR 1880719.  
  33. **^** "Explore campus, visit Boston, and find out if MIT fits you to a tea". 2006-12-16. Retrieved  2006-12-16. 
  34. **^** Munroe, James P. (1923). _A Life of Francis Amasa Walker_. New York: Henry Holt  & Company. pp. 233, 382. 
  35. **^** Lewis 1949, p. 12.
  36. **^** "Alumni Petition Opposing MIT-Harvard Merger, 1904–05". Institute Archives, MIT. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  37. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Alexander, Philip N. "MIT-Harvard Rivalry Timeline". _MIT Music and Theater Arts News_. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Retrieved  2014-07-07. 
  38. **^** MIT Museum, "Bucentaur"
  39. **^** MIT Museum charter carried to the Bucentaur
  40. **^** "Souvenir Program, Dedication of Cambridge Campus, 1916". _Object of the Month_. MIT Institute Archives  & Special Collections. Retrieved May 29, 2012. 
  41. **^** _Middlesex Canal (Massachusetts) map, 1852_ (Map). J. B. Shields. 1852. Retrieved  September 17, 2010. 
  42. **^** "Freeman's 1912 Design for the "New Technology "". _Object of the Month_. MIT Institute Archives  & Special Collections. Retrieved May 29, 2012. 
  43. **^** Lindsay, David (2000). "Eastman Becomes a Mystery Donor to MIT". PBS-WGBH. 
  44. **^** Lecuyer, Christophe (1992). "The making of a science based technological university: Karl Compton, James Killian, and the reform of MIT, 1930–1957". _Historical Studies in the Physical and Biological Sciences_. **23** (1): 153–180. doi:10.2307/27757693.  
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lewis 1949, p. 13.
  46. **^** Geiger, Roger L. (2004). _To advance knowledge: the growth of American research universities, 1900–1940_. pp.  13–15, 179–9. ISBN 0-19-503803-7. 
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Member Institutions and Years of Admission". Association of American Universities. Archived from the original on October 28, 2012. Retrieved  June 26, 2012. 
  48. **^** Lewis 1949, p. 113.
  49. **^** Bourzac, Katherine, "Rethinking an MIT Education: The faculty reconsiders the General Institute Requirements", _Technology Review_ , Monday, March 12, 2007
  50. **^** "History: School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences". MIT Archives. Archived from the original on March 11, 2010. Retrieved  July 25, 2008. 
  51. **^** "History: Sloan School of Management". MIT Archives. Archived from the original on June 21, 2010. Retrieved  July 25, 2008. 
  52. **^** Johnson, Howard Wesley (2001). _Holding the Center: Memoirs of a Life in Higher Education_. MIT Press. ISBN 0-262-60044-7.  
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Zachary, Gregg (1997). _Endless Frontier: Vannevar Bush, Engineer of the American Century_. Free Press. pp.  248–249. ISBN 0-684-82821-9. 
  54. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "MIT's Rad Lab". IEEE Global History Network. Retrieved  July 25, 2008. 
  55. **^** "Doc Draper & His Lab". _History_. The Charles Stark Draper Laboratory, Inc. Archived from the original on May 27, 2012. Retrieved  May 30, 2012. 
  56. **^** "Charles Draper: Gyroscopic Apparatus". _Inventor of the Week_. MIT School of Engineering. Archived from the original on April 18, 2012. Retrieved  May 30, 2012. 
  57. **^** "Project Whirlwind". _Object of the Month_. MIT Institute Archives  & Special Collections. Retrieved May 30, 2012. 
  58. **^** "Wartime Strobe: 1939–1945 – Harold "Doc" Edgerton (Doc's Life)". Retrieved  November 28, 2009. 
  59. **^** Bedi, Joyce (May 2010). "MIT and World War II: Ingredients for a Hot Spot of Invention" (PDF). _Prototype_. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 24, 2012. Retrieved May 30, 2012. 
  60. **^** Leslie, Stuart (1993). _The Cold War and American Science: The Military-Industrial-Academic Complex at MIT and Stanford_. Columbia University Press. ISBN 0-231-07959-1.  
  61. **^** Killian, James Rhyne (April 2, 1949). "The Obligations and Ideals of an Institute of Technology". _The Inaugural Address_. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Retrieved  2013-08-10. 
  62. **^** Lewis 1949, p. 49.
  63. **^** Lecuyer, 1992
  64. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Todd, Richard (May 18, 1969). "The 'Ins' and 'Outs' at M.I.T". _The New York Times_.  
  65. **^** <Please add first missing authors to populate metadata.> (February 28, 1969). "A Policy of Protest". _Time_. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  66. **^** _MIT Review Panel on Special Laboratories Final Report_; S.Leslie, _The Cold War and American Science. The military-industrial complex at MITand Stanford_ ; M.Albert, _Remembering Tomorrow_, p97-99; 'MIT may be dangerous to the world', _The Tech_ , 28/4/72, p5; 'Why Smash MIT?' in I.Wallerstein, _University Crisis Reader_ , vol.2, p240-3; _The Technology Review_ , December 1969.
  67. **^** "Founding Document: 1968 MIT Faculty Statement". Union of Concerned Scientists, USA. Archived from the original on January 15, 2008. Retrieved  August 12, 2008. 
  68. **^** Hechinger, Fred (November 9, 1969). "Tension Over Issue of Defense Research". _The New York Times_.  
  69. **^** Stevens, William (May 5, 1969). "MIT Curb on Secret Projects Reflects Growing Antimilitary Feeling Among Universities' Researchers". _The New York Times_.  
  70. **^** Warsh, David (June 1, 1999). "A tribute to MIT's Howard Johnson". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  April 4, 2007. At a critical time in the late 1960s, Johnson stood up to the forces of campus rebellion at MIT. Many university presidents were destroyed by the troubles. Only Edward Levi, University of Chicago president, had comparable success guiding his institution to a position of greater strength and unity after the turmoil. 
  71. ' _^_ **_'Battering Ram: The occupation of the president's office', **The Tech _, 14/12/71 p4_** and The Tech _, 4/8/72_; M.Albert, Remembering Tomorrow p9, 97-99; 'Michael Albert interview', 17/4/07; G.Katsiaficas, 'Review of Howard Johnson's Holding the Center; S.Shalom, 'A flawed political biography', _New Politics_ , Issue 23._**
  72. ' _^_ **_November Actions youtube extract'. See also: MIT Museum photos of student activism, 1960s/1970s._**
  73. **^** _The Tech_ , 27 May 1988, p2, 11 and 24 February 1989, p5 and 7 March 1989, 2, 16; _The Thistle_ , Vol. 9 No.7; _Science for the People_ , Vol.20 January/February 1988, p17-25, 41-2 and March/April 1988, p6.
  74. **^** _MIT News_ , ‘MIT cheetah robot lands the running jump’ (2015) and ‘Driving drones can be a drag’ (2012); ‘Department of Defense Announces Successful Micro-Drone Demonstration’ (2017); _MIT Technology Review_ , 20 March 2002.
  75. **^** Lee, J.A.N.; McCarthy, J.; Licklider, J.C.R. (1992). "The beginnings at MIT". _IEEE Annals of the History of Computing_. **14** (1): 18–54. doi:10.1109/85.145317. Archived from the original on February 20, 2013. Retrieved  May 31, 2012. 
  76. **^** "Internet History". Computer History Museum. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  77. **^** Raymond, Eric S. "A Brief History of Hackerdom". Retrieved August 11, 2008. 
  78. **^** "The Media Lab – Retrospective". MIT Media Lab. Archived from the original on April 17, 2009. Retrieved  August 12, 2008. 
  79. **^** "About W3C: History". World Wide Web Consortium. Retrieved  August 11, 2008. 
  80. **^** "MIT OpenCourseWare". MIT. Retrieved  June 12, 2008. 
  81. **^** "Mission – One Laptop Per Child". One Laptop Per Child. Retrieved  August 11, 2008. 
  82. **^** "Massachusetts Space Grant Consortium". Massachusetts Space Grant Consortium. Retrieved  August 26, 2008. 
  83. **^** "MIT Sea Grant College Program". MIT Sea Grant College Program. Archived from the original on April 4, 2009. Retrieved  August 26, 2008. 
  84. **^** Simha., O. R. (2003). _MIT campus planning 1960–2000: An annotated chronology_. MIT Press. pp. 120–149. ISBN 978-0-262-69294-6.  
  85. **^** "MIT Facilities: In Development & Construction". MIT. Archived from the original on March 12, 2009. Retrieved  July 22, 2008. 
  86. **^** Bombardieri, Marcella (September 14, 2006). "MIT will accelerate its building boom: $750m expansion to add 4 facilities". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  87. **^** "About MITEI". MIT Energy Initiative. Retrieved  May 31, 2012. 
  88. **^** Attwood, Rebecca (September 24, 2009). "Get it out in the open". _Times Higher Education_.  
  89. **^** Goldberg, Carey (April 4, 2001). "Auditing Classes at M.I.T., on the Web and Free". _The New York Times_.  
  90. **^** Hafner, Katie (April 16, 2010). "An Open Mind". _The New York Times_.  
  91. **^** Guttenplan, D.D. (November 1, 2010). "For Exposure, Universities Put Courses on the Web". _The New York Times_.  
  92. **^** Lewin, Tamar (December 19, 2011). "M.I.T. Expands Its Free Online Courses". _The New York Times_.  
  93. **^** "What is edX?". MIT News Office. May 2, 2012.  
  94. **^** Ruderman, Wendy; Kovaleski, Serge; Cooper, Michael (April 24, 2013). "Officer's Killing Spurred Pursuit in Boston Attack". The New York Times. 
  95. **^** Bidgood, Jess (April 24, 2013). "On a Field at M.I.T., 10,000 Remember an Officer Who Was Killed". _New York Times_. Retrieved  2014-01-30. 
  96. **^** Faviero, Bruno B. F. (April 26, 2013). "Thousands attend Sean Collier memorial service". _The Tech_. **133** (21). Retrieved  2014-01-30. 
  97. **^** "Thousands attend slain MIT officer's memorial service". CBS News. April 24, 2013.  
  98. **^** "Letter regarding the establishment of the Collier Medal". _MIT News_. November 25, 2013. Retrieved  2013-11-26. 
  99. **^** "Collier Medal". _MIT Police_. MIT. Retrieved  2013-11-26. 
  100. **^** Rocheleau, Matt (November 26, 2013). "MIT to establish a Sean Collier award". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  2013-11-26. 
  101. **^** Staff, Writer (2017-09-07). "IBM and MIT partner on artificial intelligence research". _ABC News_. Associated Press. Retrieved  2017-09-07. 
  102. **^** Durant, Elizabeth. "Smoot's Legacy: 50th anniversary of famous feat nears". _Technology Review_. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  103. **^** Fahrenthold, David (December 8, 2005). "The Measure of This Man Is in the Smoot; MIT's Human Yardstick Honored for Work". _The Washington Post_.  
  104. **^** "Cambridge: Just the Facts (City Facts Brochure)". City of Cambridge. Retrieved  May 31, 2012. 
  105. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "MIT Course Catalogue: Overview". MIT. Retrieved  July 16, 2008. 
  106. **^** "MIT presents updated Kendall Square Initiative plan to City of Cambridge". _MIT News_. Retrieved  2016-01-23. 
  107. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Kendall Square Initiative". _kendallsquare.mit.edu_. MIT. Retrieved  2016-04-06. 
  108. **^** "Letter to the community on East Campus/Kendall Square design firm selection". _MIT News_. MIT. September 23, 2014. Retrieved  2016-04-06. 
  109. **^** "Building History and Numbering System". Mind and Hand Book, MIT. Archived from the original on December 22, 2010. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  110. **^** "MIT Campus Subterranean Map" (PDF). MIT Department of Facilities. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 31, 2010. Retrieved August 13, 2008. 
  111. **^** Abel, David (March 30, 2000). "'Hackers' Skirt Security in Late-Night MIT Treks". _The Boston Globe_.  
  112. **^** "MIT Course Catalogue". MIT. Archived from the original on January 4, 2009. Retrieved  July 14, 2008. 
  113. **^** "Loose Nukes: A Special Report". ABC News. Retrieved  April 14, 2007. 
  114. **^** "MIT Assures Community of Research Reactor Safety". MIT News Office. October 13, 2005. Retrieved  October 5, 2006. 
  115. **^** Chun, Matthew G.H. (14 April 1999). "Bill Gates Donates $20 million to MIT". _The Harvard Crimson_. The Harvard Crimson, Inc. Retrieved  6 April 2014. 
  116. **^** "Supersonic Tunnel Open; Naval Laboratory for Aircraft Dedicated at M.I.T". _The New York Times_. December 2, 1949.  
  117. **^** "Ship Test Tank for M.I.T.; Dr. Killian Announces Plant to Cost $500,000". _The New York Times_. February 6, 1949.  
  118. **^** "MIT maps wireless users across campus". MIT. November 4, 2005. Archived from the original on September 5, 2006. Retrieved  March 3, 2007. 
  119. **^** "Notice of Lodging of Consent Decree Pursuant to the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, the Clean Air Act, and the Clean Water Act". Environmental Protection Agency. May 3, 2001. Archived from the original on December 25, 2008. Retrieved  July 16, 2008. 
  120. **^** Sales, Robert (April 21, 2001). "MIT to create three new environmental projects as part of agreement with EPA". MIT News Office. Retrieved July 16, 2008. 
  121. **^** "The Environment at MIT: Conservation". MIT. Archived from the original on January 4, 2009. Retrieved  August 11, 2008. 
  122. **^** "Safety & Crime Report – Massachusetts Institute of Technology". American School Search. Retrieved  September 28, 2013. 
  123. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "MIT Facts 2017: MIT and the Community". _web.mit.edu_. Retrieved  2017-03-24. 
  124. **^** Institutional Ownership Map - Cambridge Massachusetts
  125. **^** "MIT Architecture: Welcome". MIT Department of Architecture. Archived from the original on March 23, 2007. Retrieved  April 4, 2007. 
  126. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dillon, David (February 22, 2004). "Starchitecture on Campus". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  October 24, 2006. 
  127. **^** Flint, Anthony (October 13, 2002). "At MIT, Going Boldly Where No Architect Has Gone Before". _The Boston Globe_.  
  128. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jarzombek, Mark (2004). _Designing MIT: Bosworth's New Tech_. Boston: Northeastern University Press. pp. 50–51. ISBN 978-1-55553-619-0.  
  129. **^** "Names of MIT Buildings". MIT Archives. Retrieved  April 10, 2007. 
  130. **^** "Names on Institute Buildings Lend Inspiration to Future Scientists". _The Tech_. **XLII** (70). December 22, 1922. Retrieved  2012-05-30. 
  131. **^** Campbell, Robert (March 2, 1986). "Colleges: More Than Ivy-Covered Halls". _The Boston Globe_.  
  132. **^** "Challenge to the Rectangle". _TIME Magazine_. June 29, 1953. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  133. **^** "Flagpole in the Square". _TIME Magazine_. August 22, 1960. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  134. **^** Campbell, Robert (May 20, 2001). "Architecture's Brand Names Come to Town". _The Boston Globe_.  
  135. **^** Paul, James (April 9, 1989). "The Campuses of Cambridge, A City Unto Themselves". _The Washington Post_.  
  136. **^** Lewis, Roger K. (November 24, 2007). "The Hubris of a Great Artist Can Be a Gift or a Curse". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  137. **^** "2010 361 Best College Rankings: Quality of Life: Campus Is Tiny, Unsightly, or Both". Princeton Review. 2010. Retrieved  July 6, 2010. 
  138. **^** MIT Housing Office. "Undergraduate Residence Halls". Retrieved October 1, 2010. 
  139. **^** "Residential Life Live-in Staff". MIT. Archived from the original on March 20, 2012. Retrieved  June 1, 2012. 
  140. **^** Yale Daily News Staff (2009). _The Insider's Guide to the Colleges, 2010_. St. Martin's Griffin. pp.  377–380. ISBN 0-312-57029-5. 
  141. **^** MIT Housing Office. "Graduate residences for singles & families". MIT. Archived from the original on June 20, 2010. Retrieved October 1, 2010. 
  142. **^** "MIT Facts: Housing". 2010. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  143. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "Common Data Set". Institutional Research, Office of the Provost, MIT. 2012.  
  144. **^** "Undergraduate and Graduate Residence Halls, Fraternities, Sororities, and Independent Living Groups @ MIT" (PDF). MIT Residential Life. Archived from the original (PDF) on May 8, 2012. Retrieved June 1, 2012. 
  145. **^** Zernike, Kate (August 27, 1998). "MIT rules freshmen to reside on campus". _The Boston Globe_. p.  B1. 
  146. **^** Russell, Jenna (August 25, 2002). "For First Time, MIT Assigns Freshmen to Campus Dorms". _The Boston Globe_.  
  147. **^** Glatter, Hayley. "Why Residents of MIT's Counter-Culture Dorm Have to Move Out". _The Atlantic_. Retrieved  2017-11-07. 
  148. **^** "MIT Corporation". MIT Corporation. Retrieved  March 18, 2007. 
  149. **^** "Members of the MIT Corporation: Term Members". The MIT Corporation. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  150. **^** "Members of the MIT Corporation: Life Members". The MIT Corporation. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  151. **^** "Members of the MIT Corporation: Officers". The MIT Corporation. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  152. **^** "Members of the MIT Corporation: Ex Officio Members". The MIT Corporation. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  153. **^** "Bylaws of the MIT Corporation – Section 2: Members". The MIT Corporation. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  154. **^** "Robert Millard '73 elected chair of the MIT Corporation: Corporation member and alumnus succeeds John Reed; other elections announced". MIT News Office. June 5, 2014. Retrieved  June 2, 2015. 
  155. **^** "Corporation elects new members, chair". MIT News Office. June 4, 2010. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  156. **^** "A Brief History and Workings of the Corporation". MIT Faculty Newsletter. Retrieved  November 2, 2006. 
  157. **^** "MIT Investment Management Company". MIT Investment Management Company. Retrieved  January 8, 2007. 
  158. **^** "MIT Facts: Academic Schools and Departments, Divisions & Sections". 2010. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  159. **^** "Harvard-MIT HST Academics Overview". Archived from the original on January 5, 2003. Retrieved  August 5, 2007. 
  160. **^** Bras, Rafael L. (2004–2005). "Reports to the President, Report of the Chair of the Faculty" (PDF). MIT. Retrieved December 1, 2006. 
  161. **^** "Reporting List". MIT. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  162. **^** Bradt, Steve (May 16, 2012). "L. Rafael Reif selected as MIT's 17th president". _MIT News_.  
  163. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Susan Hockfield, President, Massachusetts Institute of Technology – Biography". MIT. Retrieved  September 19, 2008. 
  164. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Massachusetts Institute of Technology". Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Retrieved  June 22, 2012. 
  165. **^** "MIT Facts: Accreditation". MIT. 2010. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  166. **^** "Roster of Institutions". Commission on Institutions of Higher Education, New England Association of Schools and Colleges. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. [ _dead link_ ]
  167. **^** "Academic Calendar". Officer of the Registrar, MIT. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  168. **^** "Majors & Minors". MIT Admissions Office. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. MIT is organized into academic departments, or Courses, which you will often hear referred to by their Course number or acronym. 
  169. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Butcher, Ev. "Course Code Designation Key". MIT Club of San Diego. Archived from the original on July 25, 2011. 
  170. **^** "MIT Course Catalogue: Degree Programs". MIT. Retrieved  July 16, 2008. 
  171. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ "Enrollment Statistics". MIT Office of the Registrar. Retrieved  June 26, 2012. 
  172. **^** "Style Sheet | Report Preparation Guidelines". MIT. Retrieved  June 6, 2012. 
  173. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Average Freshmen Retention Rates: National Universities". U.S. News and World Report. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  174. **^** Switzer, Jennifer. "1,467 students admitted to Class of 2019 - The Tech". _tech.mit.edu_. Retrieved  2015-07-10. 
  175. **^** "MIT Course Catalog: Degree Charts". Officer of the Registrar, MIT. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  176. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "MIT Degrees Awarded". Institutional Research, Office of the Provost. Retrieved  June 26, 2012. 
  177. **^** "MIT Course Catalog: Academic Programs". Officer of the Registrar, MIT. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  178. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "MIT Course Catalog: Undergraduate General Institute Requirements". Officer of the Registrar, MIT. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  179. **^** "About the Requirement". _Undergraduate Communication Requirement_. MIT. Retrieved  May 30, 2012. 
  180. **^** "Faculty and Instructors". _Undergraduate Communication Requirement_. MIT. Retrieved  May 30, 2012. 
  181. **^** "MIT's Wettest Test", Nicole Morell, December 18, 2014, technologyreview.com
  182. **^** Schön, Donald A. (1986). "Leadership as Reflection-in-Action". In Thomas J. Sergiovanni, John Edward Corbally. _Leadership and Organizational Culture: New Perspectives on Administrative Theory and Practice_. University of Illinois Press. p. 59\. ISBN 0-252-01347-6. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. [In the sixties] Students spoke of their undergraduate experience as "drinking from a fire hose." CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter (link)
  183. **^** Mattuck, Arthur (2009). _The Torch or the Firehose_. MIT OpenCourseWare. p. 1.  
  184. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "MIT Course Catalog: Freshman Year". Officer of the Registrar, MIT. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  185. **^** Keuss, Nancy (October 17, 2000). "The Evolution of MIT's Pass/No Record System". _The Tech_. **120** (50). Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  186. **^** "MIT UROP: Basic Information". MIT. Retrieved  June 21, 2012. 
  187. **^** "MIT Research and Teaching Firsts". MIT News Office. Archived from the original on September 15, 2006. Retrieved  October 6, 2006. 
  188. **^** "Undergraduate Research Opportunities Program". MIT Admissions. Retrieved  June 21, 2012. 
  189. **^** Maeroff, Gene I. (January 11, 1976). "Use of Undergraduates in Research Is Hailed by M.I.T.; Inventions by Students". _The New York Times_.  
  190. **^** Palmer, Matthew (October 5, 1999). "An MIT Original, the Oft Replicated UROP Program Reaches 30 Years". _The Tech_. **119** (47).  
  191. **^** Benson, Snyder (1970). _The Hidden Curriculum_. MIT Press. ISBN 0-262-69043-8. Archived from the original on September 22, 2006.  
  192. **^** Mahoney, Matt (May 2012). "Unwritten Rules". _Technology Review_. Retrieved  June 21, 2012. 
  193. **^** "MIT Course Catalog: Graduate Education: General Degree Requirements". Officer of the Registrar, MIT. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  194. **^** "Interdisciplinary Graduate Programs". Officer of the Registrar, MIT. Retrieved  September 6, 2010. 
  195. **^** "Degrees Offered". _MIT Facts 2017_. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Retrieved  13 September 2017. 
  196. **^** "Graduate Education". _MIT Facts 2012_. MIT. Retrieved  June 25, 2012. 
  197. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  198. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  199. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  200. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  201. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  202. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  203. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  204. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  205. **^** Avery, Christopher; Glickman, Mark E.; Hoxby, Caroline M; Metrick, Andrew (December 2005). "A Revealed Preference Ranking of U.S. Colleges and Universities, NBER Working Paper No. W10803". National Bureau of Economic Research. SSRN 601105 . 
  206. **^** "2012 Parchment Top Choice College Rankings: All Colleges". Parchment Inc. Retrieved  June 5, 2012. 
  207. **^** Coughlan, Sean (15 September 2014). "What makes a global top 10 university?". _BBC News_.  It's the third year in a row that [MIT] … has been top of the QS World University Rankings. The biggest single factor in the QS rankings is academic reputation … calculated by surveying more than 60,000 academics… Universities with an established name and a strong brand are likely to do better. 
  208. **^** "NRC Rankings". Retrieved  October 9, 2008. 
  209. **^** "The Best Colleges for Your Money". _Money_. Time Inc. Retrieved  2014-07-31. 
  210. **^** Chen, Liyan (August 18, 2014). "Startup Schools: America's Most Entrepreneurial Universities". _Forbes_. Forbes LLC. Retrieved  2014-08-18. 
  211. **^** Young, Thomas (April 29, 2015). "A new kind of college ranking: The 10 universities that will increase your career earnings the most". _Brookings Now_. The Brookings Institution. Retrieved  2015-05-10. 
  212. **^** Morgan, John. "Top Six Universities Dominate THE World Reputation Rankings". "The rankings suggest that the top six-...Stanford University and the University of Oxford – form a group of globally recognised "super brands". 
  213. **^** "A Survey of New England: A Concentration of Talent". _The Economist_. August 8, 1987.  MIT for a long time... stood virtually alone as a university that embraced rather than shunned industry. 
  214. **^** Roberts, Edward B. (1991). "An Environment for Entrepreneurs". _MIT: Shaping the Future_. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. ISBN 0262631415.  The war made necessary the formation of new working coalitions... between these technologists and government officials. These changes were especially noteworthy at MIT. 
  215. **^** Shlaes, Amity (May 14, 2008). "From the Ponderosa to the Googleplex: How Americans match money to ideas". _State Department Press Release_. U.S. Department of State.  Griswold, [MIT president] Compton, and various politicians handpicked Doriot to head American Research & Development, a new firm that would invest in [the] small, innovative companies that had been underserved by traditional capital markets. 
  216. **^** Simon, Jane (July 1, 1985). "Route 128: How it developed, and why it's not likely to be duplicated". _New England Business_. Boston. p.  15\. Compton co-founded in 1946 what is believed to be the nation's first venture capital company.…  [He] and a group led by a Harvard professor [Doriot] founded one of the first venture capital companies, American Research & Development Corp. 
  217. **^** "Industrial Liaison Program: About Us". MIT. 2011.  Established in 1948, the ILP continues … making industrial connections for MIT. 
  218. **^** Kolata, Gina (December 19, 1990). "MIT Deal with Japan Stirs Fear on Competition". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  June 9, 2008. 
  219. **^** Booth, William (June 14, 1989). "MIT Criticized for Selling Research to Japanese Firms". _The Washington Post_.  
  220. **^** "Nearly half of all US Presidential science advisers have had ties to the Institute". MIT News Office. May 2, 2001. Retrieved  March 18, 2007. 
  221. **^** "MIT Washington Office". MIT Washington Office. Archived from the original on February 7, 2007. Retrieved  March 18, 2007. 
  222. **^** "Hunt Intense for Federal Research Funds: Universities Station Lobbyists in Washington". February 11, 2001. 
  223. **^** Johnston, David (August 10, 1989). "Price-Fixing Inquiry at 20 Elite Colleges". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  December 16, 2008. 
  224. **^** Chira, Susan (March 13, 1991). "23 College Won't Pool Discal Data". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  December 16, 2008. 
  225. **^** DePalma, Anthony (May 23, 1991). "Ivy Universities Deny Price-Fixing But Agree to Avoid It in the Future". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  December 16, 2008. 
  226. **^** DePalma, Anthony (September 2, 1992). "MIT Ruled Guilty in Anti-Trust Case". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  July 16, 2008. 
  227. **^** DePalma, Anthony (June 26, 1992). "Price-Fixing or Charity? Trial of M.I.T. Begins". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  228. **^** "Settlement allows cooperation on awarding financial-aid". MIT Tech Talk. 1994. Retrieved  March 3, 2007. 
  229. **^** Honan, William (December 21, 1993). "MIT Suit Over Aid May Be Settled". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  July 16, 2008. 
  230. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ "MIT Facts: Educational Partnerships". 2010. Archived from the original on January 4, 2009. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  231. **^** "Roberto Rocca Project". MIT. Retrieved  November 19, 2009. 
  232. **^** "MIT International Science and Technology Initiatives". MIT. Archived from the original on February 10, 2007. Retrieved  March 17, 2007. 
  233. **^** "About Us". _Technology Review_. MIT. Retrieved  June 5, 2012. 
  234. **^** "Alumni Benefits". MIT Alumni Association. Retrieved  June 5, 2012. 
  235. **^** "History – The MIT Press". MIT. Retrieved  March 18, 2007. 
  236. **^** Geraci, Diane. "Information Resources" (PDF). _MIT Reports to the President 2009–2010_. MIT Reference Publications Office. Retrieved  June 26, 2012. 
  237. **^** "Lewis Music Library". MIT. Archived from the original on July 7, 2010. Retrieved  October 10, 2010. 
  238. **^** "MIT List Visual Arts Center". MIT. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  239. **^** "Compton Gallery". MIT Museum. Archived from the original on August 6, 2010. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  240. **^** "MIT Percent-for-Art Program". MIT. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  241. **^** "MIT Public Art Collection". MIT. Archived from the original on July 18, 2009. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  242. **^** "MIT Museum: Mission and History". MIT. Retrieved  2013-05-15. 
  243. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Research at MIT". _MIT Facts_. MIT. Archived from the original on 2010-08-02. Retrieved  July 1, 2012. 
  244. **^** Office of the Provost. "MIT Faculty and Staff". MIT. Retrieved April 17, 2011. 
  245. **^** "TLO Statistics for Fiscal Year 2011". MIT. Archived from the original on May 21, 2012. Retrieved  July 1, 2012. 
  246. **^** Bishop, Matthew; Michael Green (Spring 2012). "Innovation for the Real World". _Philanthropy_. Retrieved  June 5, 2012. 
  247. **^** "IEEE History Center: MIT Radiation Laboratory". IEEE. Retrieved  June 9, 2008. 
  248. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Research Laboratory of Electronics at MIT: History". MIT. Archived from the original on May 15, 2008. Retrieved  June 9, 2008. 
  249. **^** Edgerton, Harold "Doc" (November 28, 2009). "High Speed Camera". Retrieved November 28, 2009. 
  250. **^** The Edgerton Digital Collections Project "When a strobe would not do the trick in murky waters, Edgerton began working on sonar techniques to "see" with sound."
  251. **^** "MIT Professor Claude Shannon dies; was founder of digital communications". MIT News Office. February 27, 2001. Retrieved  October 4, 2010. 
  252. **^** Guttag, John (2003). _The Electron and the Bit, Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT, 1902–2002_.  
  253. **^** Office of the Provost. "A. M. Turing Award". MIT. Retrieved April 17, 2011. 
  254. **^** Robert N. Noyce, Robert Langer, Bradford W. Parkinson, Ivan A. Getting, Butler W. Lampson, Timothy J. Berners-Lee, Rudolph Kalman,
  255. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Nobel Prize". Office of Institutional Research, MIT. Retrieved  December 31, 2008. 
  256. **^** "Dirac Medal". Office of Institutional Research, MIT. Retrieved  December 31, 2008. 
  257. **^** "Prize in Physics". Wolf Foundation. Retrieved  October 4, 2010. 
  258. **^** Lander, Eric; Linton, LM; Birren, B; Nusbaum, C; Zody, MC; Baldwin, J; Devon, K; Dewar, K; et al. (2001). "Initial sequencing and analysis of the human genome". _Nature_. Nature. **409** (6822): 860–921. doi:10.1038/35057062. PMID 11237011.  
  259. **^** "Eric S. Lander". Broad Institute. Retrieved  June 9, 2008. 
  260. **^** "Martin Deutsch, MIT physicist who discovered positronium, dies at 85". August 20, 2002. Retrieved  June 12, 2008. 
  261. **^** "Professor John C. Sheehan Dies at 76". MIT News Office. April 1, 1992. Retrieved  June 12, 2008. 
  262. **^** "Self-Reproducing Molecules Reported by MIT Researchers". MIT News Office. May 9, 1990. Archived from the original on May 16, 2008. Retrieved  June 12, 2008. 
  263. **^** "MIT Research and Teaching Firsts". MIT. Archived from the original on May 31, 2008. Retrieved  June 12, 2008. 
  264. **^** Hilts, Philip J. (March 31, 1998). "Last Rites for a 'Plywood Palace' That Was a Rock of Science". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  October 4, 2010. 
  265. **^** Hardesty, Larry (September 17, 2015). "Personalized Heart model". Retrieved 2015-09-21. 
  266. **^** "John Bates Clark Medal". Office of Institutional Research, MIT. Retrieved  December 31, 2008. 
  267. **^** Fox, Margalit (December 5, 1998). "A Changed Noam Chomsky Simplifies". _The New York Times_.  
  268. **^** Jaggi, Maya (January 20, 2001). "Conscience of a nation". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  August 12, 2008. 
  269. **^** Herper, Matthew (January 8, 2002). "MIT Media Lab Tightens Its Belt". _Forbes_. Retrieved  August 12, 2008. 
  270. **^** Guernsey, Lisa (April 7, 2009). "M.I.T. Media Lab at 15: Big Ideas, Big Money". _The New York Times_.  
  271. **^** Matchan, Linda (July 12, 2008). "In Search of A Beautiful Mind". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  August 12, 2008. 
  272. **^** Office of the Provost. "MacArthur Fellows". MIT. Retrieved April 17, 2011. 
  273. **^** Office of the Provost. "Pulitzer Prize". MIT. Retrieved April 17, 2011. 
  274. **^** Office of the Provost. "American Academy of Arts and Letters". MIT. Retrieved April 17, 2011. 
  275. **^** Saltus, Richard (September 28, 1990). "Journal Cites New Evidence ex-MIT Scientist Faked Data". _The Boston Globe_.  
  276. **^** Boffey, Philip (April 12, 1988). "Nobel Winner Is Caught Up in a Dispute Over Study". _The New York Times_.  
  277. **^** Abel, David (November 29, 2002). "MIT Faces Charges of Fraud, Cover-up on Missile Test Study". _The Boston Globe_.  
  278. **^** Pierce, Charles P. (October 23, 2005). "Going Postol". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  January 27, 2008. 
  279. **^** "Case Summary – Luk Van Parijs". Office of Research Integrity, U.S. Department of Health & Human Services. January 23, 2009. Archived from the original on June 11, 2009. Retrieved  December 2, 2009. 
  280. **^** Reich, Eugenie (February 3, 2009). "Former MIT biologist penalized for falsifying data". Nature News. 
  281. **^** Shih, C.; Weinberg, R. A. (1982). "Isolation of a transforming sequence from a human bladder carcinoma cell line". _Cell_. **29** (1): 161–9. doi:10.1016/0092-8674(82)90100-3. PMID 6286138.  
  282. **^** Baltimore D. (June 1970). "RNA-dependent DNA polymerase in virions of RNA tumour viruses". _Nature_. **226** (5252): 1209–11. doi:10.1038/2261209a0. PMID 4316300.  
  283. **^** "Strong dollar hurts Akamai's profit forecast, shares fall". Reuters. April 28, 2015.  
  284. **^** "Innovators under 35". _MIT Technology Review_. 1999. Retrieved  January 26, 2013. 
  285. **^** "Announcement of the GNU project".  
  286. **^** http://archive.boston.com/news/education/higher/specials/mit150/galleries/top_50/
  287. **^** http://mitadmissions.org/blogs/entry/50_things_that_mit_made
  288. **^** John McCarthy. "Recursive Functions of Symbolic Expressions and Their Computation by Machine, Part I". Retrieved 2006-10-13. 
  289. **^** Chung, S. Y.; Bloking, J. T.; Chiang, Y. M. (2002). "Electronically conductive phospho-olivines as lithium storage electrodes". _Nature Materials_. **1** (2): 123–128. doi:10.1038/nmat732. PMID 12618828.  
  290. **^** Tübinger Internet Multimedia Server Archived September 30, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  291. **^** "Learn More About OLI". _cmu.edu_.  
  292. **^** https://www.defense.gov/News/News-Releases/News-Release-View/Article/1044811/department-of-defense-announces-successful-micro-drone-demonstration
  293. **^** Sears, Andrew; Jacko, Julie A. (19 September 2007). _The Human-Computer Interaction Handbook: Fundamentals, Evolving Technologies and Emerging Applications, Second Edition_. CRC Press. p. 5\. ISBN 978-1-4106-1586-2. Retrieved  1 March 2013. 
  294. **^** W3C (September 2009). "World Wide Web Consortium (W3C) About the Consortium". Retrieved 8 September 2009. 
  295. **^** "MIT Facts 2017: Entrepreneurship and Innovation". _web.mit.edu_. Retrieved  2017-11-18. 
  296. **^** "17 Companies You Didn't Know Were Founded By MIT Grads". _Business Insider_. Retrieved  2017-11-18. 
  297. **^** Jones, Marilee. "MIT freshman application & financial aid information" (PDF). MIT Admissions Office. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 7, 2006. Retrieved January 2, 2007. We are a meritocracy. We judge each other by our ideas, our creativity and our accomplishments, not by who our families are. 
  298. **^** Bernanke, Ben S. (June 9, 2006). "2006 Commencement Speech at MIT". Archived from the original on October 7, 2006. Retrieved January 2, 2007. Mathematical approaches to economics have at times been criticized as lacking in practical value. Yet the MIT Economics Department has trained many economists who have played leading roles in government and in the private sector, including the current heads of four central banks: those of Chile, Bank of Israelsrael, Banca d'Italiataly, and, I might add, the 10=United States. 
  299. **^** "No honorary degrees is an MIT tradition going back to... Thomas Jefferson". MIT News Office. June 8, 2001. Retrieved  May 7, 2006. MIT's founder, William Barton Rogers, regarded the practice of giving honorary degrees as 'literary almsgiving ...of spurious merit and noisy popularity...' 
  300. **^** Stevenson, Daniel C. "Rushdie Stuns Audience 26–100". _The Tech_. **113** (61).  
  301. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gellerman, Bruce; Erik Sherman (2004). _Massachusetts Curiosities: Quirky Characters, Roadside Oddities, & Other Offbeat Stuff_. Globe Pequot. pp. 65–66. ISBN 0-7627-3070-6. 
  302. **^** Pourian, Jessica J. (February 15, 2011). "2013's Brass Rat unveiled". _The Tech_. **131** (5). Retrieved  June 12, 2011. 
  303. **^** "Ring History ('93 class webpage)". Archived from the original on December 14, 2006. Retrieved  December 26, 2006. 
  304. **^** Bauer, M.J. "IHTFP". Retrieved November 23, 2005. 
  305. **^** "Student Group List". _MIT_. Retrieved  2015-11-25. 
  306. **^** "MIT Outreach Database". MIT. Retrieved  September 7, 2010. 
  307. **^** Dowling, Claudia Glenn (June 5, 2005). "MIT Nerds". _Discover Magazine_. Retrieved  August 17, 2007. 
  308. **^** Bridges, Mary (January 23, 2005). "Her Mystery achievement: to boldly scavenge at MIT". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  January 16, 2007. 
  309. **^** "Charm School". _MIT Student Activities Office_. MIT Division of Student Life. Archived from the original on April 26, 2011. Retrieved  July 3, 2011. 
  310. **^** Chang, Kenneth (February 6, 2001). "What, Geeks at M.I.T.? Not With This Class". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  August 12, 2008. 
  311. **^** Kirkpatrick, J. (2011). "Students head off to varied externships". _The Tech_. **131** (59).  
  312. **^** Kirkpatrick, J. (2011). "Record 294 participate in MIT Externship Program". _The Tech_. **131** (57).  
  313. **^** Peterson, T.F. (2003). _Nightwork: A History of Hacks and Pranks at MIT_. MIT Press. ISBN 978-0-262-66137-9.  
  314. **^** Biskup, Agnieska (April 1, 2003). "These Are Not Your Ordinary College Pranks". _The Boston Globe_.  
  315. **^** "Howe & Ser Moving Co". Retrieved  April 4, 2007. 
  316. **^** Bombadieri, Marcella (December 18, 2003). "MIT Pranksters Wing It For Wright Celebration". _The Boston Globe_.  
  317. **^** "MIT Hackers & Halo 3". _The Tech_. Retrieved  September 25, 2007. 
  318. **^** Kathryn Krtnick, Asst. Dir. of Communications (November 28, 2012). "Re: NCAA Media Inquiry" (PDF). Natl. Collegiate Athletic Assn. List of institutions that sponsor the most sports: Bowdoin College and Williams College – 32; MIT – 31. 
  319. **^** Dept. of Athletics (August 2012). "2012–13 Quick Facts" (PDF). MIT. Intercollegiate Athletics: 33 varsity sports. 
  320. **^** Cohen, Rachel (May 18, 2010). "MIT the No. 1 jock school? You're kidding, right?". Associated Press. Archived from the original on September 12, 2011. Retrieved 2011-06-25. 
  321. **^** Powers, John (April 24, 2009). "MIT forced to cut 8 varsity sports". _The Boston Globe_.  
  322. **^** <Please add first missing authors to populate metadata.> (January 2009). "MIT facts 2009: International students and scholars". _MIT Bulletin_. **144** (4).  
  323. **^** "Class of 2015 admission rate sinks to 9.6 percent". _The Tech_. **131** (14). 2011. Retrieved  July 4, 2012. 
  324. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ MIT, Office of the Registrar. (October 9, 2009). _Enrollment statistics: Women students, Fall term 2009–2010_.  
  325. **^** "Geographic Distribution of Students". Office of the Registrar, MIT. 2009–2010. Retrieved  October 1, 2010. 
  326. **^** <Please add first missing authors to populate metadata.> (January 2009). "MIT facts: Admission to MIT". _MIT Bulletin_. **144** (4).  
  327. **^** U.S. Department of Education, National Center for Education Statistics. (September 2009). _College Navigator: Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Retention and graduation rates_.  
  328. **^** "MIT Facts: Tuition and Financial Aid". 2010.  
  329. **^** Bolotin, Mark (January 14, 1966). "Tuition hike provokes student riot" (PDF). _The Tech_. **85** (32).  
  330. **^** Bowden, Mary Ellen (1997). _Chemical achievers  : the human face of the chemical sciences_. Philadelphia, PA: Chemical Heritage Foundation. pp. 156–158. ISBN 9780941901123. 
  331. **^** "Ellen H. Swallow Richards". _Chemical Heritage Foundation_. Retrieved  18 November 2016. 
  332. **^** McCormickFact Sheet
  333. **^** Simha, O. R. (2003). _MIT campus planning 1960–2000: An annotated chronology_. MIT Press. pp. 32–33. ISBN 978-0-262-69294-6.  In 1959, 158 women were enrolled at MIT. 
  334. **^** Stratton, J. A. (1960). _The president's report 1960_ (PDF). p. 49\. Registration: In 1959–60 ... [o]ne hundred and fifty-five women were enrolled, [2.5 percent of student body].... 
  335. **^** EECS Women Undergraduate Enrollment Committee (January 3, 1995). "Chapter 1: Male/Female enrollment patterns in EECS at MIT and other schools". _Women Undergraduate Enrollment in Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT_. Retrieved  December 8, 2006. 
  336. **^** Healy, Patrick (February 5, 2001). "11 years, 11 suicides – Critics Say Spate of MIT Jumping Deaths Show a 'Contagion'". _The Boston Globe_. pp.  A1. 
  337. **^** Smith, Tovia (August 29, 2001). "Massachusetts Institute of Technology Looks for Ways to Deal with the Incidence of Student Suicides in Recent Years". National Public Radio. 
  338. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "MIT's Inaction Blamed for Contributing to Death of a Freshman". _The Chronicle of Higher Education_. October 6, 1998. Retrieved  October 7, 2006. 
  339. **^** Levine, Dana (September 15, 2000). "Institute Will Pay Kruegers $6M for Role in Death". _The Tech_. **120** (42). Retrieved  October 4, 2006. 
  340. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sontag, Deborah (April 28, 2002). "Who Was Responsible for Elizabeth Shin?". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  October 7, 2006. 
  341. **^** Ellen, Elizabeth Fried (LICSW) (2002). "Suicide Prevention on Campus". Psychiatric Times. Retrieved June 26, 2006. 
  342. **^** "MIT Mental Health Task Force Fact Sheet". MIT New Office. November 14, 2001. Retrieved  June 25, 2006. 
  343. **^** Arenson, Karen (December 3, 2004). "Worried Colleges Step Up Efforts Over Suicide". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  January 6, 2009. 
  344. **^** "Clay endorses Mental Health Task Force Recommendations". MIT News Office. November 28, 2001. Retrieved  June 25, 2006. 
  345. **^** Nobel Foundation (2009). _Nobel laureates and universities_. Retrieved  2015-04-01. 
  346. **^** "Awards and Honors". Institutional Research, Office of the Provost. Retrieved  October 18, 2011. 
  347. **^** "A Study on the Status of Women Faculty in Science at MIT". MIT Faculty News Letter. 1999.  
  348. **^** Kleinfeld, Judith. "MIT Tarnishes Its Reputation with Gender Junk Science". Archived from the original on February 8, 2007. Retrieved  April 10, 2007. 
  349. **^** Lopez, Kathryn Jean (April 10, 2001). "Feminist Mythology". National Review. Archived from the original on May 21, 2010. Retrieved April 10, 2007. 
  350. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Wertheimer, Linda (December 6, 2007). "Tenure at MIT Still Largely a Male Domain". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  July 25, 2008. 
  351. **^** "Professor Sues M.I.T. Over Refusal of Tenure". _The New York Times_. September 10, 1986. Retrieved  October 3, 2006. 
  352. **^** MIT as 'Intractable Enemy' Andrew Lawler; Science Careers; November 12, 1999
  353. **^** Vaznis, James (January 15, 1994). "Ex-MIT professor who was denied tenure files sex bias suit". _The Boston Globe_.  
  354. **^** Dowdy, Zachary (October 22, 1997). "MCAD supports scholar's claim of bias by MIT; University Offered job, but no tenure". _The Boston Globe_.  
  355. **^** Simpson, April (February 6, 2007). "Professor accuses MIT of racism". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  December 18, 2007. 
  356. **^** Schworm, Peter (June 4, 2007). "MIT center director resigns in protest of tenure decision". _The Boston Globe_. Retrieved  December 19, 2007. 
  357. **^** Professor accuses MIT of racism April Simpson, Globe Staff; February 6, 2007
  358. **^** "Marcia McNutt Elected 22nd NAS President; New Treasurer, Council Members Chosen" (Press release). National Academy of Sciences. February 16, 2016. Archived from the original on February 21, 2016. Retrieved  February 23, 2016. 
  359. **^** "DUSP's Briggs joins Obama administration". MIT News Office. January 20, 2009. Archived from the original on November 6, 2013.  
  360. **^** "Lander named to Obama's science team". MIT News Office. December 22, 2008. Archived from the original on November 6, 2013.  
  361. **^** Calmes, Jackie; Broder, John (March 4, 2013). "Obama Announces 3 Cabinet Nominations". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  4 March 2013. 
  362. **^** Rampton, Roberta (February 6, 2013). "Exclusive: Obama considering MIT physicist Moniz for energy secretary - sources". chicagotribune.com. Retrieved February 24, 2013. 
  363. **^** "Glassdoor's Top 25 Universities To Work For". _Glassdoor_. Glassdoor, Inc. Retrieved  2014-03-11. 
  364. **^** "MIT Reviews". _Glassdoor_. Glassdoor, Inc. Retrieved  2014-03-11. 
  365. **^** MIT Office of Institutional Research. "Awards and Honors". Retrieved 2014-03-11. 
  366. **^** Ericka Chickowski (September 20, 2010). "Gurus and Grads". _Entrepreneur_.  
  367. **^** "Kauffman Foundation study finds MIT alumni companies generate billions for regional economies". MIT News Office. February 17, 2009. Retrieved  February 25, 2009. 
  368. **^** Pilkington, Ed (May 18, 2011). "The MIT factor: celebrating 150 years of maverick genius". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  May 25, 2011. 
  369. **^** "Notable Alumni". Archived from the original on November 27, 2006. Retrieved  November 4, 2006. 
  370. **^** (in Chinese) 钱学森：历尽险阻报效祖国 火箭之王淡泊名誉，人民网，2009年10月31日.Accessed Oct. 31, 2009; (in Chinese) 美国航空周刊2008年度人物:钱学森．网易探索(广州)（2009年10月31日）. Accessed Nov. 11, 2009.
  371. **^** Silvey, Anita (1995). _Children's Books and Their Creators_. Houghton Mifflin. p. 415\. ISBN 0-395-65380-0.  
  372. **^** "Study for Woolworth Building, New York". _World Digital Library_. 1910-12-10. Retrieved  2013-07-25. 

### Bibliography[edit]

    _Also see thebibliography maintained by MIT's Institute Archives & Special Collections and Written Works in MIT in popular culture._

'

  * Abelmann, Walter H. (2004). _The Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology: The First 25 Years, 1970–1995_. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard-MIT Division of Health Sciences and Technology. ISBN 9780674014589.  
  * Angulo, A. J. (2007). "The Initial Reception of MIT, 1860s–1880s". _History of Higher Education Annual_. **26** : 1–28. 
  * Bridger, Sarah (2015). _Scientists at War, The Ethics of Cold War Weapons Research_. Cambridge, MA: Harvard University Press. ISBN 9780674736825.  
  * Etzkowitz, Henry (2006). _MIT and the Rise of Entrepreneurial Science_. London: Routledge. ISBN 9780415435055.  
  * Hapgood, Fred (1992). _Up the Infinite Corridor: MIT and the Technical Imagination_. Reading, Mass.: Addison-Wesley. ISBN 9780201082937.  
  * Jarzombek, Mark (2004). _Designing MIT: Bosworth's New Tech_. Boston, Mass.: Northeastern University Press. ISBN 9781555536190.  
  * Keyser, Samuel Jay (2011). _Mens et Mania: The MIT Nobody Knows_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262015943.  
  * Lecuyer, Christophe (1992). "The Making of a Science Based Technological University: Karl Compton, James Killian, and the Reform of MIT, 1930–1957". _Historical Studies in the Physical & Biological Sciences_. **23** (1): 153–180. doi:10.2307/27757693. JSTOR 27757693.  
  * Leslie, Stuart W. (1993). _The Cold War and American Science: The Military-Industrial-Academic Complex at MIT and Stanford_. New York: Columbia University Press. ISBN 9780231079587.  
  * Lewis, Warren K.; Robnett, Ronald H.; Soderberg, C. Richard; Stratton, Julius A.; Loofbourow, John R. (1949). _Report of the Committee on Educational Survey (Lewis Report)_ (PDF). Cambridge, Massachusetts: MIT Press. Retrieved May 28, 2012. 
  * Mitchell, William J. (2007). _Imagining MIT: Designing a Campus for the Twenty-first Century_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262134798.  
  * Nelkin, Dorothy. (1972). _The University and Military Research: Moral politics at MIT (science, technology and society)_. New York: Cornell University Press. ISBN 0-8014-0711-7.
  * Peterson, T. F. (2003). _Nightwork: A History of Hacks and Pranks at MIT_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262661379.  
  * Prescott, Samuel C. (1954). _When MIT was "Boston Tech", 1861–1916_ (Reprint. ed.). MIT Press. ISBN 9780262661393.  
  * Postle, Denis. (1965). _How to be First_. BBC documentary on MIT available at: http://reidplaza.com/MIT68
  * Renehan, Colm. (2007). _Peace Activism at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology from 1975 to 2001: A case study_, PhD thesis, Boston: Boston College.
  * Servos, John W. (December 1980). "The Industrial Relations of Science: Chemical Engineering at MIT, 1900–1939". _Isis_. The University of Chicago Press on behalf of The History of Science Society. **71** (4): 531–549. doi:10.1086/352591. JSTOR 230499.  
  * Shrock, Robert Rakes (1982). _Geology at MIT 1865–1965: A History of the First Hundred Years of Geology at Massachusetts Institute of Technology_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262192118.  
  * Simha, O. Robert (2003). _MIT Campus Planning, 1960–2000: An Annotated Chronology_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262692946.  
  * Snyder, Benson R. (1971). _The Hidden Curriculum_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262690430.  
  * Stratton, Julius A. (2005). _Mind and Hand: The Birth of MIT_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262195249.  
  * Vest, Charles M. (2004). _Pursuing the Endless Frontier: Essays on MIT and the Role of Research Universities_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262220729.  
  * Wildes, Karl L.; Lindgren, Nilo A. (1985). _A Century of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science at MIT, 1882–1982_. Cambridge, Mass.: MIT Press. ISBN 9780262231190.  

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Massachusetts Institute of
Technology**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Texts on Wikisource: 
    * "Massachusetts Institute of Technology". _Collier's New Encyclopedia_. 1921.  
    * "Massachusetts Institute of Technology, The". _Encyclopedia Americana_. 1920.  
    * "Massachusetts Institute of Technology". _The New Student's Reference Work_. 1914.  
    * "Massachusetts Institute of Technology". _New International Encyclopedia_. 1905.  
    * Swain, George Fillmore (July 1900). "Technical Education at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology". _Popular Science Monthly_. **57**.  

  * v
  * t
  * e

Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
  
---  
Academics |

  * Academics
  * School of Architecture and Planning
  * School of Engineering
  * School of Humanities, Arts, and Social Sciences
  * School of Science
  * MIT Sloan School of Management
  * Health Sciences and Technology
  * OpenCourseWare
  * Mathematics Department
  * MIT-SUTD Collaboration

|  
  
Research |

  * Broad Institute
  * Center for Information Systems Research
  * Center for Theoretical Physics
  * Computer Science and Artificial Intelligence Laboratory
  * Koch Institute
  * Laboratory for Electromagnetic and Electronic Systems
  * Laboratory for Information and Decision Systems
  * MIT Libraries
  * MIT Lincoln Laboratory
  * McGovern Institute
  * Media Laboratory
  * Picower Institute
  * Plasma Science and Fusion Center
  * Research Laboratory of Electronics
  * MIT Senseable City Lab
  * MIT Nuclear Research Reactor
  * Whitehead Institute
  * MIT Center for International Studies
  * Center for Bits and Atoms
  * Institute for Medical Engineering and Science

  
  
People |

  * Alumni
  * Faculty
  * Presidents
  * Institute Professors
  * William Barton Rogers

  
  
Culture |

  * History
  * List Visual Arts Center
  * Traditions and activities
  * MIT in popular culture
  * MIT Press
  * _MIT Technology Review_
  * Athena
  * Brass Rat
  * Hacks
  * MIT Science Fiction Society (MITSFS)
  * _The Tech_
  * Student Information Processing Board
  * Tech Model Railroad Club
  * Tech Squares
  * MIT $100K
  * Mystery Hunt
  * Smoot
  * Lemelson–MIT Prize

  
  
Campus |

  * Campus
  * Building 20
  * Chapel
  * Fraternities and sororities
  * Graduate residences
  * Green Building
  * Infinite Corridor
  * Kresge Auditorium
  * Libraries
  * MIT Museum
  * Police
  * Stata Center
  * Undergraduate residences
  * Wiesner building

  
  
Athletics |

  * Engineers

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Presidents of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
  
---  
  
  * William Barton Rogers (1862)
  * John Daniel Runkle (1870)
  * William Barton Rogers (1879)
  * Francis Amasa Walker (1881)
  * James Crafts (1897)
  * Henry Smith Pritchett (1900)
  * Arthur Amos Noyes (1907)
  * Richard Cockburn Maclaurin (1909)
  * Elihu Thomson (1920)
  * Ernest Fox Nichols (1921)
  * Elihu Thomson (1922)
  * Samuel Wesley Stratton (1923)
  * Karl Taylor Compton (1930)
  * James Rhyne Killian (1948)
  * Julius Adams Stratton (1959)
  * Howard Wesley Johnson (1966)
  * Jerome Wiesner (1971)
  * Paul E. Gray (1980)
  * Charles M. Vest (1990)
  * Susan Hockfield (2004)
  * L. Rafael Reif (2012)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Southeastern Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Standard members |

  * Alabama
  * UAB
  * UAHuntsville
  * Arkansas
  * Auburn
  * Baylor
  * Catholic
  * UCF
  * Christopher Newport
  * Clemson
  * Delaware
  * Duke
  * East Carolina
  * Florida
  * Florida Atlantic
  * Florida Tech
  * FIU
  * Florida State
  * George Mason
  * George Washington
  * Georgetown
  * Georgia
  * Georgia Tech
  * Georgia State
  * Hampton
  * Houston
  * James Madison
  * Kentucky
  * UL Lafayette
  * LSU
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Maryland
  * UMBC
  * MIT
  * Memphis
  * Miami
  * Ole Miss
  * Mississippi State
  * New Orleans
  * Norfolk State
  * North Carolina A&T
  * North Carolina
  * NC State
  * Oklahoma
  * Old Dominion
  * Regina
  * Rice
  * Richmond
  * South Carolina
  * South Florida
  * Southern Miss
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Virginia
  * VCU
  * Virginia Tech
  * Virginia State
  * West Virginia
  * William & Mary

  
  
Affiliate members |

  * Idaho State
  * Ohio

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in metropolitan Boston  
  
---  
  
  * Andover Newton Theological School
  * Bay State College
  * Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology
  * Bentley University
  * Berklee College of Music
  * Boston Architectural College
  * Boston Baptist College
  * Boston College
  * Boston Conservatory
  * Boston Graduate School of Psychoanalysis
  * Boston University
  * Brandeis University
  * Bunker Hill Community College
  * Cambridge College
  * Curry College
  * Eastern Nazarene College
  * Emerson College
  * Emmanuel College
  * Episcopal Divinity School
  * Fisher College
  * Harvard University
  * Hebrew College
  * Hellenic College
  * Hult International Business School
  * Labouré College
  * Lasell College
  * Lesley University
  * Longy School of Music
  * Massachusetts College of Art and Design
  * Massachusetts College of Pharmacy and Health Sciences
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * MGH Institute
  * Mount Ida College
  * Newbury College
  * New England College of Optometry
  * New England Conservatory
  * New England Institute of Art
  * New England School of Law
  * Northeastern University
  * Pine Manor College
  * Quincy College
  * Roxbury Community College
  * St. John's Seminary
  * School of the Museum of Fine Arts at Tufts
  * Simmons College
  * Suffolk University
  * Tufts University
  * University of Massachusetts Boston
  * Urban College of Boston
  * Wentworth Institute of Technology
  * Wheelock College
  * William James College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Polytechnic Institutes and Universities in the United States  
  
---  
Public |

  * AFIT
  * ASU at the Polytechnic
  * Arkansas Tech
  * Cal Poly (Pomona and San Luis Obispo)
  * Colorado Mines
  * Florida Poly
  * Georgia Tech
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas State University Polytechnic Campus
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Michigan Tech
  * Missouri S&T
  * Montana Tech
  * NJIT
  * New Mexico Tech
  * OSUIT
  * Oregon Tech
  * South Dakota Mines
  * Southern Poly
  * SUNY Poly
  * Tennessee Tech
  * Texas Tech
  * UW–Stout
  * Virginia Tech
  * WVU Tech

  
  
Private |

  * Caltech
  * Clarkson
  * Florida Tech
  * Harrisburg U
  * Illinois Tech
  * Indiana Tech
  * Lawrence Tech
  * MIT
  * New England Tech
  * NYIT
  * Northwestern Polytechnic
  * Rensselaer
  * RIT
  * Rose-Hulman
  * Stevens
  * Wentworth
  * WPI

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

568 Group  
  
---  
  
  * Amherst College
  * Boston College
  * Claremont McKenna College
  * College of the Holy Cross
  * Columbia University
  * Cornell University
  * Dartmouth College
  * Davidson College
  * Duke University
  * Emory University
  * Georgetown University
  * Grinnell College
  * Haverford College
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * Middlebury College
  * Northwestern University
  * Pomona College
  * St. John's College
  * Swarthmore College
  * University of Notre Dame
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * Vanderbilt University
  * Wellesley College
  * Williams College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of Independent Colleges and Universities in Massachusetts (AICUM)  
  
---  
  
  * Amherst
  * Anna Maria
  * Assumption
  * Babson
  * Bay Path
  * Becker
  * Bentley
  * Berklee
  * Boston Architectural
  * Boston Baptist
  * Boston College
  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Cambridge College
  * Clark
  * College of the Holy Cross
  * Curry
  * Dean
  * Eastern Nazarene
  * Elms
  * Emerson
  * Emmanuel
  * Endicott
  * Fisher
  * Gordon
  * Hampshire
  * Harvard
  * Hebrew
  * Labouré
  * Lasell
  * Lesley
  * Marian Court
  * MCPHS
  * MIT
  * Merrimack
  * MGH Institute
  * Mount Holyoke
  * Mount Ida
  * NECO
  * New England Conservatory
  * Newbury
  * Nichols
  * Northeastern
  * Olin
  * Pine Manor
  * Regis
  * Simmons
  * Smith
  * Springfield
  * Stonehill
  * Suffolk
  * Tufts
  * Urban College of Boston
  * Wellesley
  * WIT
  * Western New England
  * Wheaton
  * Wheelock
  * Williams
  * WPI

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

New England Women's and Men's Athletic Conference  
  
---  
Full members |

  * Babson Beavers
  * Clark Cougars
  * Coast Guard Bears
  * MIT Engineers
  * Mount Holyoke Lyons
  * Smith Pioneers
  * Springfield Pride
  * Wellesley Blue
  * Wheaton Lyons
  * WPI Engineers

  
  
Football associate members |

  * Catholic University Cardinals
  * Maine Maritime Mariners
  * Merchant Marine Mariners
  * Norwich Cadets

  
  
Other associate members |

  * Massachusetts Maritime Buccaneers (men's lacrosse)
  * Simmons Sharks (women's rowing)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges  
  
---  
  
  * BU Terriers
  * Brown Bears
  * Columbia Lions
  * Cornell Big Red
  * Dartmouth Big Green
  * Georgetown Hoyas
  * Harvard Crimson
  * Holy Cross Crusaders
  * MIT Engineers
  * Navy Midshipmen
  * Northeastern Huskies
  * Penn Quakers
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Rutgers Scarlet Knights
  * Syracuse Orange
  * Wisconsin Badgers
  * Yale Bulldogs

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

New England Football Conference  
  
---  
  
  * Coast Guard Bears
  * Curry Colonels
  * Endicott Gulls
  * Maine Maritime Mariners
  * MIT Engineers
  * Nichols Bison
  * Salve Regina Seahawks
  * Western New England Golden Bears

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

CDIO Initiative  
  
---  
Africa |

| South Africa |

  * University of Pretoria

  
  
---|---  
Asia-Pacific |

| Australia |

  * Chisholm Institute
  * Queensland University of Technology
  * University of Sydney

  
  
---|---  
China |

  * Beijing Jiaotong University
  * Chengdu University of Information Technology
  * Shantou University
  * Tsinghua University

  
  
_Elsewhere_ |

  * Taylor's University  (Malaysia)
  * University of Auckland (New Zealand)
  * Singapore Polytechnic
  * Vietnam National University, Ho Chi Minh City

  
  
Europe |

| Finland |

  * Lahti University of Applied Sciences
  * Helsinki Metropolia University of Applied Sciences
  * Seinäjoki University of Applied Sciences
  * Turku University of Applied Sciences

  
  
---|---  
Sweden |

  * Chalmers University of Technology
  * Jönköping School of Engineering
  * Linköping University
  * Royal Institute of Technology
  * Umeå Institute of Technology

  
  
UK |

  * Aston University
  * Queen's University Belfast
  * University of Bristol
  * Lancaster University
  * University of Liverpool
  * University of Leeds
  * University of Strathclyde

  
  
_Elsewhere_ |

  * Hogeschool Gent  (Belgium)
  * Engineering College of Aarhus (Denmark)
  * Technical University of Denmark
  * Telecom Bretagne (France)
  * Hochschule Wismar (Germany)
  * Politecnico di Milano (Italy)
  * Instituto Superior de Engenharia do Porto (Portugal)
  * Universitat Politècnica de Catalunya (Spain)

  
  
North America |

| Canada |

  * École Polytechnique de Montréal
  * Queen's University
  * University of Calgary
  * University of Manitoba

  
  
---|---  
United States |

  * Arizona State University
  * California State University
  * University of Colorado
  * Duke University
  * Embry–Riddle Aeronautical University
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * University of Michigan
  * Pennsylvania State University
  * United States Naval Academy

  
  
Central and  
South America

|

| Chile |

  * University of Chile
  * Catholic University of the Most Holy Conception
  * University of Santiago, Chile

  
  
---|---  
Colombia |

  * Pontifical Xavierian University
  * ICESI University

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 137272908
  * LCCN: n79006591
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 2183 597X
  * GND: 2179-9
  * SUDOC: 026460254
  * BNF: cb118704634 (data)
  * ULAN: 500263221
  * NLA: 35333171
  * NDL: 00629270
  * NKC: ko2002149458
  * BNE: XX126469

  
  
---|---  
  
Coordinates: 42°21′36″N 71°05′31″W﻿ / ﻿42.360°N 71.092°W﻿ / 42.360; -71.092

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Massachusetts_Institute_of_Technology&oldid=816641268"

Categories:

  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * Universities and colleges in Cambridge, Massachusetts
  * Engineering universities and colleges in Massachusetts
  * Technological universities in the United States
  * Land-grant universities and colleges
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program
  * Educational institutions established in 1861
  * 1861 establishments in Massachusetts
  * Rugby league stadiums in the United States
  * Science and technology in Massachusetts

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * CS1 errors: external links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from June 2016
  * CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter
  * Articles with Chinese-language external links
  * Wikipedia indefinitely move-protected pages
  * Use mdy dates from February 2013
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2017
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2015
  * Wikipedia articles in need of updating from October 2016
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2014
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from August 2017
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2012
  * All articles with vague or ambiguous time
  * Vague or ambiguous time from August 2017
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2013
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from October 2013
  * Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Collier's Encyclopedia
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating citation to the NSRW
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating citation to the NSRW with an wstitle parameter
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Popular Science Monthly
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers
  * Good articles
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Alemannisch
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Galego
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kiswahili
  * Kurdî
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * مصرى
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Occitan
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * ייִדיש
  * 粵語
  * Zazaki
  * Žemaitėška
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 22 December 2017, at 18:03.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 7 ranking. Duke is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

