

# Mellon family

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

This article's **tone or style may not reflect theencyclopedic tone used on
Wikipedia**.  See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for
suggestions. _(September 2014)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
The **Mellon family** is a wealthy and influential American family from
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Prominent members
  * 3 Members
  * 4 References

## History[edit]

The family fortune originated with Mellon Bank, founded 1869. They became
principal investors and majority owners of Gulf Oil (founded 1901 becoming
Chevron-Texaco in 1985), Alcoa (since 1886), _The Pittsburgh Tribune-Review_
(since 1970), Koppers (since 1912), New York Shipbuilding (1899–1968) and
Carborundum Corporation,[1] as well as their major financial and ownership
influence on Westinghouse,[2] H.J. Heinz, _Newsweek_ , U.S. Steel, Credit
Suisse First Boston and General Motors.

The family also founded the National Gallery in both art works and funds,
claims one of the longest serving U.S. Treasury Secretaries, and is a patron
to the University of Pittsburgh, Carnegie Mellon University, Yale University,
the Hôpital Albert Schweitzer in Haiti, and with art the University of
Virginia. Carnegie Mellon University, and its Mellon College of Science, is
named in honor of the family, as well as for its founder, Andrew Carnegie, who
was a close associate of the Mellons.

The family's founding patriarch was Judge Thomas Mellon (1813–1908),[3] a son
of Andrew Mellon and Rececca Wauchob who were Scotch-Irish farmers from Camp
Hill Cottage, Lower Castletown, parish of Cappagh, County Tyrone, Ireland and
emigrated to what is now the Pittsburgh suburb of north-central Westmoreland
County, Pennsylvania. The family can be divided into four branches:

## Prominent members[edit]

  * Thomas Mellon (1813–1908), a Judge and founder of the Mellon Bank who married Sarah Jane Negley of Pittsburgh. As a boy he decided to abandon his parents' farming lifestyle for law and banking in the city after reading Benjamin Franklin's autobiography.
  * Andrew William Mellon (1855–1937), one of the longest serving U.S. Treasury Secretaries in history and also the namesake of Washington, D.C.'s Andrew Mellon Building and Andrew W. Mellon Auditorium.
  * Timothy Mellon, chairman and majority owner of Pan Am Systems, a Portsmouth, New Hampshire-based transportation holding company.
  * Richard Beatty Mellon (1858–1933), a banker, industrialist and philanthropist
  * William Larimer Mellon, Sr. (1868–1949), a founder of the Gulf Oil Corporation
  * Richard King Mellon (1899–1970), a financier, general, and philanthropist
  * William Larimer Mellon, Jr. (1910–1989), founder of the Hôpital Albert Schweitzer Haiti
  * Cordelia Scaife May (1928–2005), a prominent philanthropist[4]
  * Richard Mellon Scaife (1932–2014), the chief sponsor of the Heritage Foundation and publisher of the _Pittsburgh Tribune-Review_ since 1970.[5]
  * James Ross ("Jay") Mellon II (b. 1942), an author of books about Abraham Lincoln, Slavery in America and his family’s founding patriarch, Thomas Mellon. According to an interview with the Swiss weekly newspaper, "SonntagsZeitung", he travels permanently in order to legally minimize taxes.[6]
  * Christopher Mellon (b. 1958), the Former Deputy Assistant Secretary of Defense for Intelligence in the Clinton and Bush Administrations; Former Minority Staff Director of the US Senate Select Committee on Intelligence, Adjunct Professor at Georgetown University; Graduate of Yale Graduate School with an M.A. in International Relations; Private Equity Investor.
  * Matthew Taylor Mellon II (b. 1964), the Chairman of the Republican Party Finance of New York, and is a Regent Director of Finance for the Republican National Committee. Mr. Mellon has founded or participated in multiple start ups such as Jimmy Choo, Harrys of London, Hanley Mellon, Marquis Jets, Arrival Aviation and Challenge Capital Partners.[7]

## Members[edit]

  * Thomas Mellon (1813–1908) ∞ 1843: Sarah Jane Negley (1817–1909) 
    * Thomas Alexander Mellon (1844–1899) ∞ Mary C. Caldwell (1847–1902), the sister of Alexander Caldwell[8]
      * Thomas Alexander Mellon Jr. (1873-1948) ∞ Helen McLanahan Wightman (1871-1961) 
        * Edward "Ned" Purcell Mellon II ∞ Louise Grubbs 
          * Thomas Alexander "Alec" Mellon IV[9]
        * Helen S. Mellon (1914-2007) ∞ 1936: Adolph William Schmidt (1904–2000)[10]
          * Helen Schmidt ∞ unk. Claire
          * Thomas Mellon Schmidt (b. 1940)
      * Edward Purcell Mellon (1875-1953) ∞ Ethel Churchill Humphrey (1880-1938)[11]
        * Jane Caldwell Mellon (1917-2013) ∞ (1) Craigh Leonard ∞ (2) Robinson Simonds (1906-2000)[12]
          * Edward M. Leonard
          * Craigh Leonard Jr.
          * Stephanie Leonard
      * Mary Caldwell Mellon (1884–1975) ∞ (1) John Herman Kampmann (1880–1957) ∞ (2) Samuel Alfred McClung (1880–1945) 
        * John Herman Kampmann (1907–1940)
        * Mary Mellon Kampmann (1908–1995) ∞ Lawrence Deen Schwartz (1909–1957)
        * Samuel Alfred McClung III (1918–2015) ∞ Adelaide "Adie" Smith (1919–2000)
        * Isabel Edith McClung (1920–1967) ∞ Charles Abernethy Jr. (1913–1990), the son of Charles Laban Abernethy
        * Cynthia Mellon McClung (1921–1991) ∞ Stephen Stone, Jr. (1915–1962)
    * James Ross Mellon (1846–1934) ∞ Rachel Hughley Larimer (1847–1919), the daughter of William Larimer
      * William Larimer Mellon, Sr. (1868–1949) ∞ Mary Hill Taylor 
        * Matthew Taylor Mellon (1897–1992) ∞ (1) 1931: (div.) Gertrud Altegoer (1909–2005) ∞ (2) Jane Bartrum[13]
          * Karl Negley Mellon (1938–1983) ∞ Anne Stokes Bright 
            * Christopher Mellon (b. 1958)
            * Matthew Taylor Mellon II (b. 1964) ∞ 2000: (div. 2005) Tamara Yeardye (b. 1967) ∞ Nicole Hanley Mellon 
              * Araminta "Minty" Mellon (b. 2002)
              * Force Mellon (b. 2011)
              * Olympia Mellon (b. 2013)
          * James Ross (Jay) Mellon II (b. 1942) ∞ Vivian Ruesch, the daughter of Hans Ruesch.
        * Rachel Mellon (1899–2006)[14] ∞ John Fawcett Walton, Jr. (1893–1974) 
          * Farley Walton ∞ Joshua Clyde Whetzel, Jr. (1921–2012) 
            * Joshua Clyde Whetzel III ∞ Marion Plunkett
            * Rachel Walton Whetzel ∞ Richard Casselman
            * Thomas Porter Whetzel
            * William Mellon Whetzel ∞ (1) 1978: (div.) Patricia Joan McGarey ∞ (2) Camilla F.
          * Mary Walton ∞ Walter J. P. Curley, Jr.
          * John Fawcett Walton III ∞ Phyllis Walton
          * James Mellon Walton (b. 1930) ∞ Ellen Carroll[15]
        * Margaret Mellon Hitchcock (1901–1998) ∞ (1) Alexander Laughlin ∞ (2) Tommy Hitchcock, Jr. (1900–1944)[16]
          * Louise Eustis Hitchcock
          * Margaret Mellon Hitchcock
          * Thomas Hitchcock III
          * William Mellon Hitchcock
        * William Larimer Mellon, Jr. (1910–1989) ∞ (1) 1930: (div. 1938) Grace Rowley ∞ (2) 1946: Gwendolyn Grant Rawson (1911–2000), former wife of John de Groot Rawson.[17]
      * S. Lucille Mellon (1887–1968) ∞ (1) Sidney J. Holloway ∞ (2) Alexander Grange ∞ (3) George S. Hasbrouck
    * Sarah Emma Mellon, who died in childhood
    * Annie Rebecca Mellon, who died in childhood
    * Samuel Selwyn Mellon, who died 1862, at age 9
    * Andrew William Mellon (1855–1937) ∞ 1900: (div. 1912) Nora Mary McMullen (1879–1973) 
      * Ailsa Mellon Bruce (1901–1969) ∞ 1926: (div. 1945) David Kirkpatrick Este Bruce (1898–1977) 
        * Audrey Mellon Bruce (1934–1967) ∞ 1955: Stephen Currier (d. 1967), son of Mary Warburg
          * Andrea Bruce Currier (b. 1956) ∞ 1980: Donald Wright Patterson, Jr. (1939) 
            * Justin Bruce Patterson ∞ 2013: Anna Elizabeth Burke[18]
          * Lavinia Currier ∞ Joel McCleary[19]
          * Michael Stephen Currier (1961–1998) ∞ Karin Griscom
      * Paul Mellon (1907–1999) ∞ (1) 1935: Mary Conover Brown (1904–1946) ∞ (2) 1948: Rachel Lambert "Bunny" Mellon (1910–2014), the former wife of Stacy Barcroft Lloyd Jr
        * Timothy Mellon (b. 1943)
        * Catherine Conover Mellon ∞ 1957: (div. 1973) John William Warner III (b. 1927) 
          * Virginia Warner
          * John William Warner IV (b. 1962) ∞ Shannon Ford Hamm (b. 1965)
          * Mary Warner
    * Richard Beatty Mellon (1858–1933) ∞ Jennie King (d. 1938) 
      * Richard King Mellon (1899–1970) ∞ 1936: Constance Prosser McCaulley 
        * Richard Prosser Mellon (b. 1939) ∞ Gertrude Adams (1939–2003)[20]
          * Richard A. Mellon ∞ Alex Mellon
          * Armour N. Mellon ∞ Sophie Mellon
        * Cassandra King Mellon (b. 1940) ∞ (1) George M. Henderson ∞ (2) 1979: Edwin Van Rensselaer Milbury 
          * Christina Mellon Henderson ∞ 1996: Scott Robert McBroom
          * Bruce King Mellon Henderson
        * Constance Barber Mellon (1941–1983)[21] ∞ William Russell Grace Byers (d. 1999) (brother in law of Joseph Verner Reed Jr.) ∞ (2) 1971: (div. 1973) J. Carter Brown (1934–2002) 
          * William Russell Grace Byers, Jr. (b. 1965)
          * Alison Mellon Byers (b. 1967)
        * Seward Prosser Mellon (b. 1942)
      * Sarah Cordelia Mellon (1903–1965) ∞ Alan Magee Scaife (1900–1958) 
        * Cordelia Scaife May (1928–2005) ∞ (1) 1949: (div. 1950) (1) Herbert A. May, Jr. ∞ (2) 1973: Robert Duggan (1926/7–1974)
        * Richard Mellon Scaife (1932–2014) ∞ (1) 1956: (div. 1991) Frances L. Gilmore (b. 1934) ∞ (2) 1991: (div. 2012) Margaret "Ritchie" Battle (b. 1947) 
          * Jennie K. Scaife (b. 1963) 
            * Kade Scaife-Jack (b. 1985)
            * Bennett Scaife-Jack (b. 1986)
            * Amelia Scaife-Jack (b. 1987)
            * Jenae Scaife-Jack (b. 1987)
            * Andrew Scaife-Jack (b. 1992)
            * Thomas Scaife-Jack (b. 1992)
          * David N. Scaife (b. 1966)
    * George Negley Mellon (1860–1887)

  * Pittsburgh portal

## References[edit]

  1. **^** https://news.google.com/newspapers?id=9IJIAAAAIBAJ&sjid=Q24DAAAAIBAJ&dq=mellon%20stumbles%20over%20merger&pg=7045%2C2578881
  2. **^** https://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=1144&dat=19290123&id=eEsbAAAAIBAJ&sjid=AUsEAAAAIBAJ&pg=3441,3566653
  3. **^** Fitzpatrick, Dan (July 1, 2007). "Mellon family's legacy lives on". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  4. **^** Tanfani, Joseph (25 July 2013). "Late heiress' anti-immigration efforts live on". _Los Angeles Times_.  
  5. **^** http://www.post-gazette.com/news/obituaries/2014/07/04/Tribune-Review-publisher-Scaife-dies/stories/201407040150
  6. **^** Imbach, Florian. "Der Mann ohne Heimat". Retrieved 5 May 2013. 
  7. **^** Griffiths, Charlotte (2 January 2011). "Tamara Mellon's ex-husband Matthew becomes a dad for the second time". _Daily Mail_. London. Retrieved  15 November 2012. 
  8. **^** "Mellons in Pittsburgh" (PDF). _Old Post Gazette_. Retrieved  7 August 2016. 
  9. **^** https://news.google.com/newspapers?nid=2002&dat=19780808&id=b_gjAAAAIBAJ&sjid=fNsFAAAAIBAJ&pg=1542,1877933&hl=en
  10. **^** "Helen Mellon Schmidt obituary". _St. Augustine Record_. September 27, 2007. Retrieved  7 August 2016. 
  11. **^** "Mrs. Edward P. Mellon's obituary". _New York Times_. September 6, 1938. Retrieved  7 August 2016. 
  12. **^** "Jane Mellon Simonds". _Findagrave.com_. Retrieved  7 August 2016. 
  13. **^** "Matthew T. Mellon '22". _paw.princeton.edu_. Princeton Alumni Weekly. Retrieved  31 May 2017. 
  14. **^** "Paid Notice: Deaths WALTON, RACHEL MELLON". _The New York Times_. 14 March 2006. Retrieved  31 May 2017. 
  15. **^** "The Heinz Endowments : Board of Directors". Retrieved  31 May 2017. 
  16. **^** McNulty, Timothy. "′Throwback′ to the golden age of wealth and power in the city". Retrieved 31 May 2013. 
  17. **^** Pace, Eric (2 December 2000). "Gwen Grant Mellon, 89, Dies; Founder of a Haitian Hospital". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  31 May 2017. 
  18. **^** "Anna Burke, Justin Patterson". _The New York Times_. 22 September 2013. Retrieved  31 May 2017. 
  19. **^** Grove, Lloyd (July 8, 1998). "Child of Fortune, Take 2". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  31 May 2017. 
  20. **^** Vondas, Jerry (August 5, 2003). "Renowned decorator also respected for generosity". _TribLIVE.com_. Retrieved  31 May 2017. 
  21. **^** "Constance Barber Mellon, 41, Prominent Patron of the Arts". _The New York Times_. 4 January 1983. Retrieved  31 May 2017. 

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * History
    * Timeline
  * Culture
  * Dialect
  * Media
  * Neighborhoods
  * Notable people
  * Skyscrapers

  
  
|

Government  
  
---  
  
  * Airport
  * Conventions
  * City Hall
  * Courthouse
  * Mayor
  * Council
  * Events
  * InterGov
  * Police
  * D.A.
  * Sheriff
  * Fire
  * Libraries
  * Transit
  * Education
  * Port
  * Regional

  
  
|

Economy  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Conference
  * Duquesne Club
  * Chamber of Commerce
  * Economic Club
  * HYP Club
  * Stock Exchange

  
  
---  
  
| Fortune 500 headquarters |

  * U.S. Steel
  * PNC Financial Services
  * PPG Industries
  * Kraft Heinz
  * Mylan
  * WESCO International
  * Consol Energy
  * Dick's Sporting Goods
  * Allegheny Technologies

  
  
---|---  
Forbes largest private  
companies headquarters |

  * 84 Lumber
  * Giant Eagle

  
  
Other corporation headquarters |

  * American Bridge
  * American Eagle Outfitters
  * Ampco Pittsburgh
  * ANSYS
  * Armstrong Communications
  * Atlas America
  * Black Box
  * Bruster's Ice Cream
  * Calgon Carbon
  * Compunetix
  * Dollar Bank
  * DQE Energy
  * Eat'n Park
  * EDMC
  * EQT Energy
  * Federated Investors
  * GNC
  * Guru.com
  * Highmark
  * H. Laughlin China
  * iGate
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Kennametal
  * Koppers
  * MARC USA
  * Millcraft Industries
  * Mine Safety Appliances
  * Niche.com
  * Oxford Development
  * PTC Alliance
  * Renda Broadcasting
  * rue21
  * University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
  * Vocelli Pizza
  * Wabtec

  
  
Companies with split headquarters |

  * Alcoa
  * ModCloth
  * NOVA Chemicals

  
  
Subsidiary company headquarters |

  * Allegheny Energy
  * Bayer Corporation
  * FedEx Ground
  * GlaxoSmithKline USA
  * LANXESS
  * Respironics
  * Vivisimo
  * Westinghouse Electric Company

  
  
Outside companies with  
strong Pittsburgh relations |

  * BNY Mellon (formerly Mellon Financial)
  * Dreyfus Corporation
  * Eaton Corporation
  * Spreadshirt
  * Macy's

  
  
Historic |

  * Fisher's Big Wheel
  * Clark Bar
  * Dravo
  * Fisher Scientific
  * Integra Bank
  * Mesta Machinery
  * G. C. Murphy
  * Gulf Oil
  * J&L Steel
  * Ketchum
  * Rockwell
  * Sunbeam
  * Westinghouse

  
  
List of corporations in Pittsburgh  
  
|

Sports  
  
---  
  
|

  * Dapper Dan
  * Grand Prix
  * Great Race
  * Head of the Ohio
  * Lore
  * Marathon
  * Mylan Classic
  * Regatta
  * WPHL

  
  
---  
Baseball |

  * Pirates
  * Wild Things
  * Panthers
  * Dukes

    _Chronicle-Telegraph Cup_
    Allegheny
    Burghers
    Champions
    Crawfords
    Filipinos
    Grays
    Hardhats
    Keystones
    Stogies
    Rebels  
  
Basketball |

  * Yellow Jackets
  * Panthers (m)
  * Panthers (w)
  * Dukes (m)
  * Dukes (w)
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)

    Roundball Classic
    Condors
    Ironmen
    Loendi
    Monticello
    Phantoms
    Pipers
    Piranhas
    Pirates
    Rens
    Xplosion  
  
Football |

  * Steelers
  * Panthers
  * Steeler Nation
  * heritage
  * Colts
  * Force
  * Passion
  * Renegades

    1898 All-Stars
    Allegheny
    Americans
    A's
    Duquesne
    Gladiators
    Homestead
    Lyceum
    Maulers
    Power
    Odds
    Olympics
    Quakers
    JP
    Stars
    Early Pro Football Circuit  
  
Hockey |

  * Penguins
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)
  * Three Rivers Classic

    A's
    Bankers
    Cougars
    Duquesne
    Ft. Pitt
    Hornets
    Keystones
    Lyceum
    Panthers
    Phantoms
    Pirates
    Pirates (WPHL)
    Pros
    Shamrocks
    Victorias
    Winter Garden
    Yellow Jackets  
  
Soccer |

  * Riverhounds

    Beadling
    Cannons
    Hurricanes
    Phantoms
    Spirit  
  
Other |

    Sledgehammers
    Bulls
    Harlequins
    PCC
    Triangles
    Wallabies
    Studio Wrestling
    Dirty Dozen  
  
Venues |

  * PPG Paints Arena
  * Heinz Field
  * PNC Park
  * 84 Lumber Arena
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Highmark Stadium
  * Palumbo Center
  * Petersen Events Center
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Rooney Field
  * Sewall Center
  * Trees Hall

    Central Park
    Civic Arena
    Duquesne Gardens
    Exposition Park
    Forbes Field
    Josh Gibson Field
    Greenlee Field
    Motor Square Garden
    Pitt Stadium
    Recreation Park
    Schenley Gardens
    Three Rivers
    Winter Garden  
  
|

Parks  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Arsenal
  * Allegheny Commons
  * Allegheny Riverfront
  * ArtGardens
  * Buhl Community
  * Chatham University Arboretum
  * Frank Curto
  * **Frick**
  * **Emerald View**
  * **Highland**
  * Market Square
  * Mellon
  * Mellon Green
  * Mellon Square
  * North Shore Riverfront
  * Phillips
  * Point of View
  * Point State
  * PPG Place
  * **Riverview**
  * Roberto Clemente Memorial
  * Rodef Shalom Biblical Botanical Garden
  * **Schenley**
  * Schenley Plaza
  * South Shore Riverfront
  * South Side
  * **Three Rivers**
  * West End Overlook
  * Westinghouse

  
  
---  
  
|

Transportation  
  
---  
  
|

  * Inclines
  * Steps

  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Port Authority of Allegheny County  
  
---  
Light rail  
(List of stations) |

  *      Blue Line – Library
  *      Blue Line – South Hills Village
  *      Red Line – Castle Shannon
  *      Red Line – South Hills Village

|  
  
Inclines  
(Historical list) |

  * Duquesne Incline
  * Monongahela Incline

  
  
Buses and busways  
(List of routes) |

  *      Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway
  *      South Busway
  *      West Busway

  
  
Former lines |

  * 47 Drake
  * Brown Line
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
Other |

  * North Shore Connector
  * Port Authority 4000 Series PCC
  * Wabash Tunnel

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Public transportation in Greater Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Bus services |

  * **Port Authority of Allegheny County**
    * list of bus routes
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Fayette
  * IndiGO
  * Mid Mon Valley
  * Mountain Line
  * New Castle
  * Town & Country
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Washington
  * Westmoreland

  
  
Bus rapid transit |

  * MLK Jr. East Busway
  * South Busway
  * West Busway

  
  
Light rail |

  * Red Line
  * Blue Line 
    * Library
    * South Hills Village

  
  
Inclines |

  * Duquesne
  * Monongahela

  
  
Amtrak |

  * _Capitol Limited_
  * _Pennsylvanian_

  
  
Airports |

  * **Pittsburgh International**
  * **Arnold Palmer**
  * Allegheny County
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Eddie Dew
  * Greensburg Jeannette
  * Herron
  * Jefferson
  * Jimmy Stewart
  * Joe Hardy
  * Lakehill
  * Monroeville
  * New Castle
  * Rock
  * Rostraver
  * Washington
  * Wheeling
  * Zelienople

  
  
Discontinued |

  * _Broadway Limited_
  * Brown Line
  * List of streetcar routes in Pittsburgh
  * _Parkway Limited_
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Tunnels and bridges in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Tunnels |

  * Allegheny River Tunnel
  * Armstrong Tunnel
  * Cork Run Tunnel
  * Corliss Tunnel
  * Fort Pitt Tunnel
  * J&L Tunnel
  * Liberty Tunnel
  * Mount Washington Transit Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh and Castle Shannon Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh & Steubenville Extension Railroad Tunnel
  * Schenley Tunnel
  * Squirrel Hill Tunnel
  * Wabash Tunnel

|  
  
Bridges |

  * 30th Street Bridge
  * 31st Street Bridge
  * 33rd Street Railroad Bridge
  * 40th Street Bridge
  * Bloomfield Bridge
  * Birmingham Bridge
  * David McCullough Bridge
  * Fort Duquesne Bridge
  * Fort Pitt Bridge
  * Fort Wayne Railroad Bridge
  * Glenwood Bridge
  * Glenwood B&O Railroad Bridge
  * Highland Park Bridge
  * Homestead Grays Bridge
  * Hot Metal Bridge
  * Liberty Bridge
  * McKees Rocks Bridge
  * Panhandle Bridge
  * Panther Hollow Bridge
  * Schenley Bridge
  * Senator Robert D. Fleming Bridge
  * Smithfield Street Bridge
  * South Tenth Street Bridge
  * Three Sisters
    * Roberto Clemente Bridge
    * Andy Warhol Bridge
    * Rachel Carson Bridge
  * Veterans Bridge
  * West End Bridge

  
  
|

Attractions  
  
---  
  
|

  * Aviary
  * Baywood
  * Cathedral of Learning
  * Chinatown
  * Conservatory
  * _Dippy_
  * Immaculate Heart
  * Duquesne Incline
  * Heinz Chapel
  * Little Italy
  * Mellon Institute
  * Mon Incline
  * Observatory
  * Pamela's
  * Penn Station
  * _Point of View_ sculpture
  * Primanti's
  * Science Center
  * Steps
  * USS _Requin_
  * Zoo
  * Kennywood
  * Luna Park
  * Westinghouse Sign

  
  
---  
Landmarks |

  * National (City)
  * National (County)
  * State
  * City
  * PHLF
  * Cultural

  
  
Museums |

  * Art
  * Arts
  * Arts Festival
  * Bible
  * Fort Pitt and Blockhouse
  * Clayton
  * Clemente
  * Children's
  * Frick
  * Glass Center
  * History
  * Jazz
  * Jewish
  * Mattress Factory
  * Dental
  * Miller
  * Miss Pittsburgh
  * Nationality Rooms
  * National Map
  * Natural History
  * Soldiers and Sailors
  * Warhol
  * Wilson
  * WSG

  
  
Venues |

  * Heinz Hall
  * Benedum
  * Byham
  * Harris
  * Kelly-Strayhorn
  * New Hazlett
  * O'Reilly
  * Foster
  * Playhouse
  * Trib
  * Hunt
  * Stage AE
  * Syria Mosque
  * Nixon Theater

  
  
Festivals |

  * Anthrocon
  * Arts
  * Blues
  * Comicon
  * Fashion
  * Film
  * Folk
  * Handmade
  * New Works
  * Tekko
  * Whiskey & Fine Spirits
  * Wine

  
  
|

Shopping and entertainment  
  
---  
  
  * Casino
  * Gateway Clipper Fleet
  * Station Square
  * Strip
  * Downtown
  * Oakland
  * South Side

  * Macy's
  * Market Square
  * Southside Works
  * Waterworks
  * Mount Washington
  * East Liberty
  * Squirrel Hill
  * Shadyside
  * Walnut Street

  * Opera
  * Ballet
  * Symphony
  * Brass
  * Classical Theatre
  * Dance
  * Ensemble
  * Caravan Theatre
  * Folk
  * Light Opera
  * Opera Theater
  * Jewish Theatre
  * Public Theater
  * Playwrights
  * Musical Theater
  * Stage Right
  * Youth Ballet
  * Youth Symphony
  * Bricolage
  * NNOC

|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Shopping malls in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Enclosed |

  * Beaver Valley Mall
  * The Block Northway
  * Century III Mall
  * The Galleria of Mt. Lebanon
  * The Mall at Robinson
  * Monroeville Mall
  * Pittsburgh Mills
  * Ross Park Mall
  * South Hills Village
  * Station Square
  * Uniontown Mall
  * Warner Centre
  * Washington Crown Center
  * Westmoreland Mall

  
  
Lifestyle /  
Outdoor |

  * Bakery Square
  * Edgewood Towne Centre
  * Ellsworth Avenue
  * McCandless Crossing
  * Northern Lights
  * Robinson Town Centre
  * Settlers Ridge
  * SouthSide Works
  * Walnut Street
  * The Waterfront
  * Waterworks Mall

  
  
Outlet |

  * Grove City Premium Outlets
  * Tanger Outlets Pittsburgh

  
  
Defunct |

  * Allegheny Center Mall
  * East Hills Shopping Center (Eastgate Commerce Center)
  * Eastland Mall
  * Greengate Mall
  * Parkway Center Mall
  * Village Square Mall
  * Washington Mall

  
  
|

Colleges and universities  
  
---  
  
  * Pitt
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Duquesne
  * Robert Morris
  * Chatham
  * Point Park
  * Carlow
  * Art Institute
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Saint Paul Seminary
  * CCAC

  
  
|

Culture of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * Cookie table
  * Jewish history
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Jagoff
  * Joe Magarac
  * _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_
  * Mr. Yuk
  * Parking chairs
  * Pittsburgh left
  * Pittsburgh toilet
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * Steeler Nation

  
  
  * **Book**
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Banking families  
  
---  
Europe |

  * Bardi
  * Berenberg
  * Bethmann
  * Bischoffsheim
  * Borgia
  * Camondo
  * Cerchi
  * Chigi
  * Ephrussi
  * Fould
  * Fugger
  * Goldman–Sachs
  * Goldschmidt
  * Gondi
  * Gossler (Berenberg-Gossler)
  * Hochstetter
  * Hottinguer
  * Imhoff
  * Königswarter
  * Medici
  * Mendelssohn
  * Metzler
  * Oppenheim
  * Pazzi
  * Pictet
  * Pierleoni
  * Péreire
  * Peruzzi
  * Rothschild
  * Schröder
  * Seyler
  * Solaro
  * Sozzini
  * Speyer
  * Stern
  * Thurzó
  * Wallenberg
  * Warburg
  * Welser
  * Van Lanschot

  
  
United States |

  * Barney
  * Drexel
  * Goldman–Sachs
  * Lazard
  * Lehman
  * Mellon
  * Morgan
  * Rockefeller
  * Seligman
  * Warburg

  
  
United Kingdom |

  * Baring
  * Child
  * Clifford
  * Goldsmid
  * Hope
  * Mocatta
  * Rothschild
  * Sassoon
  * Smith

  
  
Japan |

  * Mitsui
  * Sumitomo
  * Yasuda

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mellon_family&oldid=806363805"

Categories:

  * Mellon family

Hidden categories:

  * Wikipedia articles needing style editing from September 2014
  * All articles needing style editing

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 21 October 2017, at 14:58.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

