

# Mid-century modern

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from Mid-Century Modern)

Jump to: navigation, search

Tract home in Tujunga, California, features open-beamed ceilings, about 1960.

Tulip chair (designed 1955–56) by Eero Saarinen

**Mid-century modern** is a term that describes mid–20th century developments
in interior, product, and graphic design, architecture, and urban development
from roughly 1933 to 1965. The term, employed as a style descriptor as early
as the mid-1950s, was reaffirmed in 1983 by Cara Greenberg in the title of her
book, _Mid-Century Modern: Furniture of the 1950s_ (Random House), celebrating
the style that is now recognized by scholars and museums worldwide as a
significant design movement.

## Contents

  * 1 Architecture
    * 1.1 Mid-century modern in Palm Springs
  * 2 Industrial design
  * 3 Graphic design
  * 4 Examples
    * 4.1 Architecture
    * 4.2 Furniture and design
  * 5 Additional architects, artists and designers
  * 6 See also
  * 7 References
  * 8 Further reading
  * 9 External links

## Architecture[edit]

|

This section **does notcite any sources**.  Please help improve this section
by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced material may be challenged
and removed. _(March 2012)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
Detail of Copan, a Niemeyer building in São Paulo, Oscar Niemeyer

The Mid-Century modern movement in the U.S. was an American reflection of the
International and Bauhaus movements, including the works of Gropius, Florence
Knoll, Le Corbusier and Ludwig Mies van der Rohe.[1] Though the American
component was slightly more organic in form and less formal than the
International Style, it is more firmly related to it than any other. Brazilian
and Scandinavian architects were very influential at this time, with a style
characterized by clean simplicity and integration with nature. Like many of
Wright's designs, Mid-Century architecture was frequently employed in
residential structures with the goal of bringing modernism into America's
post-war suburbs. This style emphasized creating structures with ample windows
and open floor plans, with the intention of opening up interior spaces and
bringing the outdoors in. Many Mid-century houses utilized then-groundbreaking
post and beam architectural design that eliminated bulky support walls in
favor of walls seemingly made of glass. Function was as important as form in
Mid-Century designs, with an emphasis placed specifically on targeting the
needs of the average American family.

Eichler Homes — Foster Residence, Granada Hills

In Europe the influence of Le Corbusier and the CIAM resulted in an
architectural orthodoxy manifest across most parts of post-war Europe that was
ultimately challenged by the radical agendas of the architectural wings of the
avant-garde Situationist International, COBRA, as well as Archigram in London.
A critical but sympathetic reappraisal of the internationalist oeuvre,
inspired by Scandinavian Moderns such as Alvar Aalto, Sigurd Lewerentz and
Arne Jacobsen, and the late work of Le Corbusier himself, was reinterpreted by
groups such as Team X, including structuralist architects such as Aldo van
Eyck, Ralph Erskine, Denys Lasdun, Jorn Utzon and the movement known in the
United Kingdom as New Brutalism.

Pioneering builder and real estate developer Joseph Eichler was instrumental
in bringing Mid-Century Modern architecture ("Eichler Homes") to subdivisions
in the Los Angeles area and the San Francisco Bay region of California, and
select housing developments on the east coast. George Fred Keck, his brother
Willam Keck, Henry P. Glass, Ludwig Mies van der Rohe, and Edward Humrich
created Mid-Century Modern residences in the Chicago area. Mies van der Rohe's
Farnsworth House is extremely difficult to heat or cool, while Keck and Keck
were pioneers in the incorporation of passive solar features in their houses
to compensate for their large glass windows.

### Mid-century modern in Palm Springs[edit]

Miller House, by Richard Neutra

The city of Palm Springs, California is noted for its many examples of Mid-
century modern architecture.[2][3][4][5][6][7][8]

Architects[9] include:[10]

  * Welton Becket: Bullock's Palm Springs (with Wurdeman) (1947) (demolished, 1996[11])
  * John Porter Clark: Welwood Murray Library (1937); Clark Residence (1939) (on the El Minador golf course); Palm Springs Women's Club (1939)
  * William F. Cody: Stanley Goldberg residence;[12] Del Marcos Motel (1947); L'Horizon Hotel, for Jack Wrather and Bonita Granville (1952); remodel of Thunderbird Country Club clubhouse (c. 1953) (Rancho Mirage); Tamarisk Country Club (1953) (Rancho Mirage) (now remodeled); Huddle Springs restaurant (1957); St. Theresa Parish Church (1968); Palm Springs Library (1975)
  * Craig Ellwood: Max Palevsky House (1970)
  * Albert Frey: Palm Springs City Hall (with Clark and Chambers) (1952–1957); Palm Springs Fire Station #1 (1955); Tramway Gas Station (1963); Movie Colony Hotel; Kocher-Samson Building (1934) (with A. Lawrence Kocher); Raymond Loewy House (1946); Villa Hermosa Resort (1946); Frey House I (1953); Frey House II (1963); Carey-Pirozzi house (1956); Christian Scientist Church (1957); Alpha Beta Shopping Center (1960) (demolished)
  * Victor Gruen: City National Bank (now Bank of America) (1959)[13] (designed as an homage to the Chapelle Notre Dame du Haut, Ronchamp, by Le Corbusier)
  * A. Quincy Jones: Palm Springs Tennis Club (with Paul R. Williams) (1946); Town & Country Center (with Paul R. Williams) (1947–1950); J.J. Robinson House (with Frederick E. Emmons) (1957); Ambassador and Mrs. Walter H. Annenberg House (with Frederick E. Emmons) (1963)
  * William Krisel[14] \- Ocotillo Lodge(1957); House of Tomorrow(1962).[15]
  * John Lautner: Desert Hot Springs Motel (1947); Arthur Elrod House (1968) (interiors used in filming James Bond's _Diamonds Are Forever_); Bob Hope's home (1973)
  * Gene Leedy: The Sarasota School of Architecture, sometimes called Sarasota Modern, is a regional style of post-war architecture that emerged on Florida's Central West Coast.
  * John Black Lee: Specialized in residential houses. Lee House 1 (1952), Lee House 2 (1956) for which he won the Award of Merit from the American Institute of Architects, Day House (1965), * _System House (1961)_ , Rogers House (1957), Ravello (1960)
  * Frederick Monhoff: Palm Springs Biltmore Resort (1948) (demolished, 2003[11])
  * Richard Neutra (Posthumous AIA Gold Medal honoree): Grace Lewis Miller house (1937) (includes her Mensendlieck posture therapy studio);[16] Kaufman House (1946);[17] Samuel and Luella Maslon House, Tamarisk Country Club, Rancho Mirage (1962) (demolished, 2003[11])
  * William Pereira: Robinson's (1953)
  * William Gray Purcell (with protégé Van Evera Bailey): Purcell House (1933) (cubist modern)
  * R.M. Schindler: Paul and Betty Popenoe Cabin, Coachella (1922, demolished); Maryon Toole House (1947) (Palm Desert)
  * Charles Tanner: Community Church (1935)
  * Earle Webster: "The Ship of the Desert" nautical moderne house (1936) (with Adrian Wilson)
  * Donald Wexler: Steel Developmental Houses,[18] Sunny View Drive (1961). Home developer, Alexander Homes, popularized this post-and-beam architectural style in the Coachella Valley. Alexander houses and similar homes feature low-pitched roofs, wide eaves, open-beamed ceilings, and floor-to-ceiling windows.[5]:66–75
  * E. Stewart Williams: Frank Sinatra House (1946) (with piano-shaped pool); Oasis commercial building (with interiors by Paul R. Williams) (1952); William and Marjorie Edris House (1954); Mari and Steward Williams House (1956); Santa Fe Federal Savings Building (1958); Coachella Valley Savings & Loan (now Washington Mutual) (1960); Palm Springs Desert Museum (1976)
  * Harry Williams: Plaza Shopping Center (1936) (one of the first car-oriented centers in the United States)
  * Paul Williams: Palm Springs Tennis Club (with Jones) (1946)
  * Lloyd Wright: Oasis Hotel (1923)
  * Walter Wurdeman: Bullock's Palm Springs (with Welton Becket) (1947) (demolished, 1996[11])

Examples of 1950s Palm Springs motel architecture include Ballantines Movie
Colony (1952) — one portion is the 1935 Albert Frey San Jacinto Hotel — the
Coral Sands Inn (1952), and the Orbit Inn (1957).[19] Restoration projects
have been undertaken to return many of these residences and businesses to
their original condition.[20]

## Industrial design[edit]

Scandinavian design was very influential at this time, with a style
characterized by simplicity, democratic design and natural shapes. Glassware
(Iittala – Finland), ceramics (Arabia – Finland), tableware (Georg Jensen –
Denmark), lighting (Poul Henningsen – Denmark), and furniture (Danish modern)
were some of the genres for the products created. In America, east of the
Mississippi, the American-born Russel Wright, designing for Steubenville
Pottery, and Hungarian-born Eva Zeisel designing for Red Wing Pottery and
later Hall China created free-flowing ceramic designs that were much admired
and heralded in the trend of smooth, flowing contours in dinnerware. On the
West Coast of America the industrial designer and potter Edith Heath
(1911–2005) founded Heath Ceramics in 1948. The company was one of the
originally numerous California pottery manufacturers that had their heyday in
post-war USA, and produced Mid-Century modern ceramic dish-ware. Edith Heath's
"Coupe" line remains in demand and has been in constant production since 1948,
with only periodic changes to the texture and color of the glazes.[21]

## Graphic design[edit]

Printed ephemera documenting the mid-century transformations in urban
development, architecture and design include Linen Type postcards from the
1930s to the early 1950s. They consisted primarily of national view-cards of
North American cities, towns, buildings, monuments and civil and military
infrastructures. Mid-century Linen Type postcards came about through
innovations pioneered through the use of offset lithography. The cards were
produced on paper with a high rag content, which gave the postcard a fabric
type look and feel. At the time this was a less expensive process. Along with
advances in printing technique, Linen Type cards allowed for very vibrant ink
colors. The encyclopedic geographic iconography of mid-century Linen Type
images suggests popular middle class attitudes about nature, wilderness,
technology, mobility and the city during the mid-20th century.[22]

Curt Teich in Chicago[23] was the most prominent and largest printer and
publisher of Linen Type postcards[24] pioneering lithography with his "Art
Colortone" process.[25] Other large publishers include Stanley Piltz in San
Francisco, who established the "Pictorial Wonderland Art Tone Series", Western
Publishing and Novelty Company in Los Angeles and the Tichnor Brothers in
Boston.[26] The printing of mid-century Linen Type postcards began to give way
in the late 1950s to Kodachrome and Ektachrome type glossy color prints.

## Examples[edit]

### Architecture[edit]

  * Main Terminal at Dulles Airport in Northern Virginia, by Eero Saarinen

  * Palacio da Alvorada, official residence of the President of Brazil, by Oscar Niemeyer

  * National Congress of Brazil, Oscar Niemeyer

  * MIT Chapel by Eero Saarinen

  * North Christian Church, Columbus, Indiana, US, the final work of Eero Saarinen

  * Stahl House, designed by Pierre Koenig

  * Helsinki, Finland – University of Technology – Auditorium, by Alvar Aalto.

  * Hotel Casino de la Selva, Cuernavaca, Mexico, by Félix Candela

  * Cal Poly Pomona College of Environmental Design by Carl Maston

  * The 360 at Founders Plaza in Oklahoma City

  * Riverplace Tower, Jacksonville, Florida, US by Welton Becket

  * St. Augustine's Episcopal Church in Gary, Indiana by Edward D. Dart

  * Courthouse Annex Building, Jacksonville, Florida, US by Reynolds, Smith & Hills

  * CSX Transportation Building, Jacksonville, Florida, US by KBJ Architects

  * Del Prado Condominiums, Balboa Park, San Diego, by William Krisel

  * UCI Langston Library, Irvine Ranch, California

### Furniture and design[edit]

  * Egg chair by Arne Jacobsen

  * Grand Prix by Arne Jacobsen

  * Eames Lounge Chair by Charles and Ray Eames

  * Diamond chair by Harry Bertoia

  * Comprehensive Storage Unit by George Nelson

  * Chicago Hall of Science by Curt Teich

## Additional architects, artists and designers[edit]

  * Gregory Ain
  * Alfons Bach[27]
  * Milo Baughman
  * Al Beadle
  * Robin Boyd
  * Marcel Breuer
  * Robert C. Broward
  * Victor Christ-Janer
  * William Curry
  * Edward D. Dart
  * Charles and Ray Eames
  * Arthur Erickson
  * O'Neil Ford
  * Paul T. Frankl
  * Bertrand Goldberg
  * Max Gottschalk
  * Eileen Gray
  * Taylor Hardwick
  * Ralph Haver
  * Finn Juhl
  * Vladimir Kagan
  * Louis Kahn
  * Poul Kjaerholm
  * Kaare Klint
  * Pierre Koenig
  * Florence Knoll
  * William Krisel
  * Mogens Lassen
  * Roger Lee
  * Carl Maston
  * Cliff May
  * Paul McCobb
  * John Randal McDonald
  * Emil Milan
  * William Morgan
  * Børge Mogensen
  * George Nelson
  * Oscar Niemeyer
  * Svend Nielsen
  * Isamu Noguchi
  * Verner Panton
  * Tommi Parzinger
  * Adrian Pearsall
  * Walter Pierce
  * Warren Platner
  * Jean Prouvé
  * Ira Rakatansky
  * Jens Risom
  * Paul Rudolph
  * Eero Saarinen
  * Richard Schultz
  * Paul Schweikher
  * Harry Seidler
  * Avriel Shull
  * Mel Smilow
  * Maurice K. Smith
  * Alison and Peter Smithson
  * Raphael Soriano
  * Russell Spanner
  * Edward Durell Stone
  * Ole Wanscher
  * Hans Wegner
  * David Weidman[28]
  * Russel Wright
  * Eva Zeisel

## See also[edit]

  * Design portal
  * Architecture portal

  * Butterfly roof
  * Case Study Houses
  * Danish modern
  * Dingbat
  * Miami Modern Architecture
  * Miller House
  * Modern architecture
  * Modernism
  * Populuxe

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Jason Peterson (2014-02-01). "Designer Spotlight: Florence Knoll". Emfurn. Retrieved 2015-05-23. 
  2. **^** Wills, Eric (May–June 2008). "Palm Springs Eternal". _Preservation_. **60** (3): 38–45.  
  3. **^** Cygelman, Adèle; David, Rosa (forward); Glomb, David (photographs) (1999). _Palm Springs Modern: Houses in the California Desert_. New York, NY: Rizzoli International. p.  192\. ISBN 0-8478-2091-2. LCCN 98048811. 
  4. **^** Shulman, Julius; Stern, Michael; Hess, Alan (2008). _Julius Shulman: Palm Springs_. New York, NY: Rizzoli International. p.  208\. ISBN 978-0-8478-3113-5. LCCN 2007933610. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hess, Alan; Danish, Andrew (2001). _Palm Springs Weekend: The Architecture and Design of a Midcentury Oasis_. San Francisco, CA: Chronicle Books. p.  180\. ISBN 0811828042. LCCN 00024046. 
  6. **^** Quinn, Bradley (2004). _Mid-Century Modern: Interiors, Furniture, Design Details_. London: Conran Octopus. p.  176\. ISBN 978-1840914061. 
  7. **^** Faibyshev, Dolly (2010). _Palm Springs: Mid-Century Modern_. Atglen, PA: Schiffer Pub. p.  112\. ISBN 9780764334610. LCCN 2010925309. OCLC 475457720. 
  8. **^** "Desert Modernism Timeline". _Palm Springs Modern Committee_. Retrieved  15 February 2017. 
  9. **^** Goldberger, Paul (May–June 2008). "The Modernist Manifesto". _Preservation_. **60** (3): 30–35.  
  10. **^** "The Time: Modern: Highlights in the development of modernism in the Coachella Valley". _Palm Springs Life_. Palm Springs, CA. February 2007.  
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Lost: Maslon House". _Palm Springs Preservation Foundation_. Retrieved  15 February 2017. 
  12. **^** "A Winter Residence in Palm Springs" (PDF). _Architectural Digest_. Fall 1967. Retrieved  May 23, 2012. Interior Design by Arthur Elrod, A.I.D. and William Broderick, A.I.D.; Architecture by William Cody, F.A.I.A. 
  13. **^** Palm Springs Preservation Foundation: Then and Now
  14. **^** "William Krisel". _Palm Springs Modern Committee_. Retrieved  15 February 2017. 
  15. **^** Bradley, Darren (29 June 2013). "Modernist Architecture: William Krisel". _modernistarchitecture.blogspot.com_. Retrieved  15 February 2017. 
  16. **^** Leet, Stephen (2004). _Richard Neutra's Miller House_. New York, NY: Princeton Architectural Press. p.  191\. ISBN 1-56898-274-7. LCCN 2003021531. 
  17. **^** Friedman, Alice T. (2010). "2. Palm Springs Eternal: Richard Neutra's Kaufmann Desert House". _American Glamour and the Evolution of Modern Architecture_. New Haven, CN: Yale University Press. p.  262\. ISBN 978-0300116540. LCCN 2009032574. 
  18. **^** Bricker, Lauren Weiss; Williams, Sidney J. (2011). _Steel and Shade: The Architecture of Donald Wexler_. Palm Springs, CA: Palm Springs Art Museum. p. 131\. ISBN 978-0981674346. LCCN 2010043639.  
  19. **^** Howser, Huell (September 27, 2002). " '50s Motel – Palm Springs Week (20)". _California's Gold_. Chapman University Huell Howser Archive.  
  20. **^** Colacello, Bob; Becker, Jonathan (photographs) (June 1999). "Palm Springs Weekends" (PDF). _Vanity Fair_ : 192–211. 
  21. **^** Zahid Sardar (2004-02-01). "Home Is Where the Heath Is: A Bay Area pottery tradition continues under new ownership". _San Francisco Chronicle_. Retrieved  2006-09-14. 
  22. **^** Meikle, Jeffrey L. "A Paper Atlantis". _Journal of Design History_. **13** (4): 267–86.  
  23. **^** Curt Teich Postcard Archives, Lake County Discovery Museum. Retrieved March 4, 2012.
  24. **^** Metropolitan Postcard Club of New York City. Retrieved March 4, 2012.
  25. **^** "An Offset Pioneer" in: American Printer, October 1, 2006. Retrieved March 4, 2012.
  26. **^** Tichnor Brothers Collection, Boston Public Library. Retrieved March 4, 2012.
  27. **^** Mayhew, Augustus (11 July 2011). "Urbane Developments: Miami & Delray". _New York Social Diary_. Retrieved  6 February 2017. 
  28. **^** Saperstein, Pat (2014-08-07). "David Weidman, Animation Artist Whose Work Appeared on 'Mad Men,' Dies at 93". _Variety_. Retrieved  2014-08-29. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Greensberg, Cara (1984). _Mid-Century Modern: Furniture of the 1950s_. OL 1984249W.  
  * Andersen, Kurt (23 February 1998). Robert Polidori (photographs). "Annals of Architecture: Desert Cool" (PDF). _The New Yorker_. **74** (2): 128–137. ISSN 0028-792X. Retrieved  May 23, 2012.  (Abstract: Chronicles the return to fashionability of Palm Springs, including the post-W.W. II architecture of John Lautner, Richard Neutra, and Albert Frey.)
  * Coquelle, Aline (2006). _Palm Springs Style_. Assouline. p.  192\. ISBN 978-2843237430. 
  * Dailey, Victoria (2003). _LA's Early Moderns: Art, Architecture, Photography_. Princeton Archit.Press. p.  136\. ISBN 978-1890449162. 
  * Dietsch, Deborah K. (2000). _Classic Modern: Midcentury Modern At Home_. Simon  & Schuster. p. 208\. ISBN 978-0684867441. 
  * Hess, Alan (2007). _Forgotten Modern: California Houses 1940–1970_. Weintraub, Alan (photographs). Gibbs Smith. p.  280\. ISBN 978-1586858582. 
  * Keith, Michele (2010). "Michael Berman: ... Palm Springs; Alex Jordan: ... Palm Desert". _Designers here and there: inside the city and country homes of America's top decorators_. New York, NY: Monacelli Press. p.  224\. ISBN 978-1580932462. LCCN 2009042910. 
  * _Dream Homes Deserts: A Showcase of the Finest Architects, Designers & Builders in Las Vegas, Palm Springs & New Mexico_. Dallas, TX: Panache Partners, LLC. 200. p. 200\. ISBN 978-1933415284. 

## External links[edit]

  * Renovations and Additions to a 1940's Mid Century Modern Residence in Pasadena by architect James V. Coane & Associates
  * _Desert Utopia: Mid-Century Architecture in Palm Springs_, documentary about Mid-Century Modern in Palm Springs

  * v
  * t
  * e

Genres of modern architecture  
  
---  
Alphabetically |

  * Art Deco
  * Art Nouveau
  * Bauhaus
  * Blobitecture
  * Brutalism
  * Constructivism
  * Contemporary
  * Critical regionalism
  * De Stijl
  * Deconstructivism
  * Expressionism
  * Functionalism
  * Futurism
  * Googie
  * High-tech
  * International style
  * Mid-Century modern
  * Modernisme
  * Neo-Futurism
  * Neomodern
  * New Classical
  * New Objectivity
  * Organicism
  * Postconstructivism
  * Postmodernism
  * PWA Moderne
  * Prairie School
  * Rationalist-Fascist
  * Stalinist
  * Streamline Moderne
  * Stripped Classicism
  * Structuralism

  
  
By start year /  
decade

|

  * Modernisme (1888–1911)
  * Art Nouveau (1890–1910)
  * Prairie School (1890s–1920s)
  * Expressionism (1910–)
  * De Stijl (1917–1931)
  * Bauhaus (1919–1933)
  * Constructivism (1920–1932)
  * New Objectivity (1922–1933)
  * Streamline Moderne (1925–1950)
  * Rationalist-Fascist (1920s–1930s)
  * International style (1920s–1960s)
  * Functionalism (1920s–1970s)
  * Futurism (1920s–)
  * Organicism (1920s–)
  * Art Deco (1910–1939)
  * Postconstructivism (1930s)
  * PWA Moderne (1933-1944)
  * Stalinist (1930s–1950s)
  * Googie (1940s–1960s)
  * Mid-century modern (1940s–1960s)
  * Brutalism (1950s–1980s)
  * Structuralism (1959–)
  * Postmodernism (1960s–)
  * Blobitecture (1960s–)
  * Contemporary (1970s–)
  * High-tech (1970s–)
  * Critical regionalism (1980s–)
  * Deconstructivism (1980s–)
  * Neomodern (1990s–)
  * New Classical (1990s–)
  * Neo-futurism (2000s–)

  
  
  * Related articles

  
  
Retrieved from "https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Mid-
century_modern&oldid=814536513"

Categories:

  * 1940s architecture
  * 1950s architecture
  * 1960s architecture
  * 20th-century architectural styles
  * American architectural styles
  * Architectural styles
  * History of furniture
  * House styles
  * Modernism
  * Modernist architecture in the United States
  * Modernist architecture
  * Mid-century modern

Hidden categories:

  * Articles needing additional references from March 2012
  * All articles needing additional references

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 9 December 2017, at 11:27.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

