

# National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

It has been suggested that _Division on Engineering and Physical Sciences_ be
merged into this article. (Discuss) _Proposed since December 2017._  
  
---|---  
The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine

The Keck Center of the National Academies in Washington, D.C.  
  
---  
Formation | 1863 (as National Academy of Sciences), 1916 (as National Research
Council), 2015 (as National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine)  
Headquarters | Washington, D.C., U.S.  
  
Membership

| Scientists, engineers, and health professionals  
  
Official language

| English  
  
The **National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine** (also known
as "NASEM" or "the National Academies") is the collective scientific National
Academy of the United States (US). The name is used interchangeably in two
senses: (1) as an umbrella term for its three quasi-independent honorific
member organizations (the National Academy of Sciences (NAS), the National
Academy of Engineering (NAE), and the National Academy of Medicine (NAM)). And
(2) as the brand for studies and reports issued by the operating arm of the
three academies, the National Research Council (NRC). The NRC was first formed
in 1916 as an activity of the NAS. Now jointly governed by all three
academies, it produces some 200 publications annually which are published by
the National Academies Press.

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Honorific societies
  * 3 Operation of the National Research Council
  * 4 The study process
  * 5 Operating divisions
  * 6 Other programs
  * 7 Notable reports
    * 7.1 Reports on climate change
    * 7.2 Report on sexual assault
  * 8 See also
  * 9 References
  * 10 Further reading
  * 11 External links

## History[edit]

The US National Academy of Sciences was created by an Act of Incorporation
dated March 3, 1863, which was signed by then President of the United States
Abraham Lincoln [1] The Act stated that " ... the Academy shall, whenever
called upon by any department of the Government, investigate, examine,
experiment, and report upon any subject of science or art .... " [1] With the
American civil war raging, the new Academy was presented with few problems to
solve, but it did address matters of "... coinage, weights and measures, iron
ship hulls, and the purity of whiskey..." [1] All subsequently affiliated
organizations have been created under this same overall congressional charter,
including the two younger academies, National Academy of Engineering (NAE)
(created in 1964) and NAM (created as the Institute of Medicine in 1970 and
rechartered as NAM in 2015)[2].

Under this same charter, the National Research Council was created in 1916. On
June 19 of that year, then US President Woodrow Wilson requested that the
National Academy of Sciences organize a "National Research Council". The
purpose of the Council (at first called the National Research Foundation) was
in part to foster and encourage "the increased use of scientific research in
the development of American industries ... the employment of scientific
methods in strengthening the national defense ... and such other applications
of science as will promote the national security and welfare."[3]

At the time, the Academy's effort to support national defense readiness, the
Committee on Nitric Acid Supply, was approved by Secretary of War Newton D.
Baker. Nitric acid was the substance basic in the making of propellants such
as cordite, high explosives, dyes, fertilizers, and other products but
availability was limited due to World War I. The NRC, through its committee,
recommended importing Chilean saltpeter and the construction of four new
ordinance plants. These recommendations were accepted by the War Department in
June 1917, although the plants were not completed prior to the end of the
war.[3]  
In 1918, Wilson formalized the NRC's existence under Executive Order
2859.[4][5][6] Wilson's order declared the function of the NRC to be in
general:

    _"(T)o stimulate research in the mathematical. physical, and biological sciences. and in the application of these sciences to engineering, agriculture. medicine. and other useful arts. with the object of increasing knowledge, of strengthening the national defense, and of contributing in other ways to the public welfare."_ [1]

During World War I, the United States was at war, the NRC operated as the
Department of Science and Research of the Council of National Defense as well
as the Science and Research Division of the United States Army Signal
Corps.[7] When war was first declared, the Council had organized committees on
antisubmarine and gas warfare.[1]

On June 1, 1917, the council convened a meeting of scientific representatives
of the United Kingdom and France with interested parties from the U.S. on the
subject of submarine detection.[8][9] Another meeting with the British and
French was held in Paris in October 1918, at which more details of their work
was disclosed. As a result of these meetings, the NRC recommended that
scientists be brought together to work on the problems associated with
submarine detection. Due to the success of council-directed research in
producing a sound-based method of detecting submarines, as well as other
military innovations, the NRC was retained at the end of the war, though it
was gradually decoupled from the military.

NRC's Articles of Organization have been changed only three times: in 1956,
January 1993, and July 2015.[10]

## Honorific societies[edit]

Main articles: National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering,
and National Academy of Medicine

The National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering and National
Academy of Medicine are honorary membership organizations, each of which has
its own governing Council, and each of which elects its own new members. The
membership of the three academies totals more than 6,300 scientists,
engineers, and health professionals. New members for each organization are
elected annually by current members, based on their distinguished and
continuing achievements in original research. By the terms of the original
1863 Congressional charter, the three academies serve _pro bono_ as "advisers
to the nation on science, engineering, and medicine."

##  Operation of the National Research Council[edit]

The National Research Council is the operating arm of the three academies for
the purpose of providing objective policy advice. Although separately
chartered (see above), it falls legally under the overall charter of the
National Academy of Sciences, whose ultimate fiduciary body is the NAS
Council. In actual practice, the NAS Council delegates governing authority to
a Governing Board of the National Research Council that is chaired jointly by
the presidents of the three academies, with additional members chosen by them
or specified in the charters of the academies.

Under this three-academy umbrella, the National Research Council produces
reports that shape policies, inform public opinion, and advance the pursuit of
science, engineering, and medicine.[11]

## The study process[edit]

The National Academies attempt to obtain authoritative, objective, and
scientifically balanced answers to difficult questions of national
importance.[12] Top scientists, engineers, health professionals, and other
experts (not limited to those in academies membership) are enlisted to address
the scientific and technical aspects of some of society's problems. These
experts are volunteers who serve on study committees that are convened to
answer specific sets of questions. All committee members serve without pay.
NASEM itself does not perform original research; rather it provides
independent advice. Federal agencies are the primary financial sponsors of the
Academies' work; additional studies are funded by state agencies, foundations,
other private sponsors, and the National Academies endowment. The external
sponsors have no control over the conduct or results of a study, once the
statement of task and budget are finalized. Study committees gather
information from many sources in public meetings but deliberate in private in
order to avoid political, special interest, and sponsor influence.

All NRC reports go through an extensive external review facilitated by the NRC
internal Report Review Committee (also consisting of members from the NAS,
NAE, and NAM). [13]

Through this study process, the National Academies produce around 200 reports
each year. Recent reports cover such topics as addressing the obesity
epidemic, the use of forensics in the courtroom, invasive plants, pollinator
collapse, underage drinking, the Hubble Telescope, vaccine safety, the
hydrogen economy, transportation safety, climate change, and homeland
security. Many reports influence policy decisions; some are instrumental in
enabling new research programs; others provide independent program reviews.
The National Academies Press is the publisher for the National Academies of
Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine, and makes its publications available for
free online reading, and the full book PDFs have been available for free
download since 2011.

## Operating divisions[edit]

The National Research Council performs its studies and workshops through seven
major divisions; Division of Behavioral and Social Sciences and Education,
Division of Earth and Life Studies, Division of Engineering and Physical
Sciences, Health and Medicine Division, Policy and Global Affairs Division,
Transportation Research Board, and the Gulf Research Program.[14]

## Other programs[edit]

The Christine Mirzayan Science and Technology Policy Fellowship is an annual
program for current or recent graduate students to spend three months working
in the National Academies.[15] The Academies also administer the Marian
Koshland Science Museum.

## Notable reports[edit]

### Reports on climate change[edit]

In 2001, the NRC published the report _Climate Change Science: An Analysis of
Some Key Questions,_ which emphasized the fact that national policy decisions
made now and in the long-term future will influence the extent of any damage
suffered by vulnerable human populations and ecosystems later in this century.
The report endorsed findings of the Intergovernmental Panel on Climate Change
(IPCC) as representing the views of the scientific community:

> The changes observed over the last several decades are likely mostly due to
human activities, but we cannot rule out that some significant part of these
changes is also a reflection of natural variability. Human-induced warming and
associated sea level rise are expected to continue through the 21st century...
The IPCC's conclusion that most of the observed warming of the last 50 years
is likely to have been due to the increase in greenhouse gas concentrations
accurately reflects the current thinking of the scientific community on this
issue.[16]

In 2013, the NRC published the report _Abrupt Impacts of Climate Change:
Anticipating Surprises,_ which provided an updated look at the issue of abrupt
climate change and its potential impacts. This study differed from previous
treatments of abrupt changes by focusing on abrupt climate changes and also
abrupt climate impacts that have the potential to severely affect the physical
climate system, natural systems, or human systems, often affecting multiple
interconnected areas of concern.[17]

###  Report on sexual assault[edit]

In 2013, the NRC published the report _Estimating the Incidence of Rape and
Sexual Assault,_[18] which pointed out that approximately 80 percent of sexual
assaults go unreported to law enforcement. The report recommends that the
National Crime Victimization Survey adopt new approaches to interviews of rape
victims, including changing the wording of questions.

In an article about the report, Amber Stevenson, clinical supervisor and
therapist at the Nashville Sexual Assault Center, said that victim-blaming was
the main issue preventing victims from coming forward:

> As long as we as a community continue to make victim-blaming statements,
such as, "She put herself in this situation," … "She didn't fight back, she
must have wanted it," we will continue to see rapes go unreported ... We have
to stop blaming the victim. The conversation needs to shift to the person who
chose to rape.[19]

## See also[edit]

  * National Academies Press
  * United States National Research Council Rankings
  * List of members of the National Academy of Sciences

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Rexmond, Cochrane (1978). _The National Academy of Sciences: The First Hundred Years, 1863-1963_. NAP. pp.  209–211. ISBN 0-309-02518-4. 
  2. **^** "Institute of Medicine to Become National Academy of Medicine". _The National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine_.  
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rexmond, Cochrane (1978). _The National Academy of Sciences: The First Hundred Years, 1863-1963_. NAP. pp.  209–211. ISBN 0-309-02518-4. 
  4. **^** Executive Order 2859
  5. **^** _A Chronicle of Public Laws Calling for Action by the National Academy of Sciences, National Academy of Engineering, Institute of Medicine, [and] National Research Council_. Washington, DC: National Academies. 1985. p. xiii. NAP:11820. Retrieved  22 March 2014. .
  6. **^** William Henry Welch NAS.
  7. **^** National Research Council (U.S.) (1919). _Organization and Members_. The National Research Council. p. 3.   Accessed at Google Books
  8. **^** Michael S. Reidy; Gary R. Kroll; Erik M. Conway (2007). _Exploration and Science: Social Impact and Interaction_. ABC-CLIO. pp. 176–. ISBN 978-1-57607-985-0.  
  9. **^** Howeth, Linwood S. (1963). _History of communications-electronics in the United States Navy_.  Page 528
  10. **^** Articles of Organization, June 1, 2015, MRC website
  11. **^** "Articles of Organization | National-Academies.org | National Research Council | Where the Nation Turns for Independent, Expert Advice". 2016-05-19. Archived from the original on 2016-05-19. Retrieved  2016-09-27. CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link)
  12. **^** "Our Study Process". National Academy of Medicine. Archived from the original on 2009-10-16. Retrieved  2015-11-01. 
  13. **^** Who We Are | National-Academies.org | Where the Nation Turns for Independent, Expert Advice. National-Academies.org. Retrieved on 2013-08-12.
  14. **^** "About the National Research Council". National Research Council. Retrieved  22 March 2014. 
  15. **^** "Christine Mirzayan Science & Technology Policy Graduate Fellowship Program". U.S. National Academies. Retrieved  26 July 2014. 
  16. **^** _Climate Change Science: An Analysis of Some Key Questions. National Academies Press_. doi:10.17226/10139.  
  17. **^** Council, National Research. _Abrupt Impacts of Climate Change: Anticipating Surprises_. doi:10.17226/18373.  
  18. **^** Council, National Research. _Estimating the Incidence of Rape and Sexual Assault_. doi:10.17226/18605.  
  19. **^** "Study: Sexual assaults greatly underreported". _USA TODAY_. Retrieved  2016-03-29. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Rexmond C. Cochrane (1978). _The National Academy of Sciences: The First Hundred Years, 1863-1963_. National Academies. NAP:11988.   ISBN 0-309-02518-4

## External links[edit]

  * Official website
  * http://www.nationalacademies.org/nasem/
  * National Academy of Sciences (NAS)
  * National Academy of Engineering (NAE)
  * National Academy of Medicine (NAM)
  * National Academies Press (NAP)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=National_Academies_of_Sciences,_Engineering,_and_Medicine&oldid=815852719"

Categories:

  * National academies
  * National academies of sciences
  * United States National Academies
  * Scientific organizations based in the United States
  * Research councils

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown
  * Articles to be merged from December 2017
  * All articles to be merged

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Deutsch
  * 한국어
  * 日本語
  * Polski
  * Simple English
  * Svenska
  * Türkçe
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 17 December 2017, at 16:28.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

