

# New York University

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

This article is about the private institution founded in 1831. For other and
similar uses, see University of New York.

Coordinates: 40°43′48″N 73°59′42″W﻿ / ﻿40.73000°N 73.99500°W﻿ / 40.73000;
-73.99500

New York University  
---  
Latin: Universitas Neo Eboracensis  
Motto | _Perstare et praestare_ (Latin)  
  
Motto in English

| To persevere and to excel  
Type | Private[1]  
Established | 1831[1]  
Endowment | $3.488 billion (2016)[2]  
Budget | $8.046 billion (2016)[3]  
Chairman | William R. Berkley[4]  
President | Andrew D. Hamilton  
Provost | Katherine E. Fleming[5]  
  
Academic staff

| **Total: 9,768** (Fall 2015)[6]  
(5,303 full-time /  
4,465 part-time)[6]  
  
Administrative staff

| 2,242[7][8]  
Students | **50,027** (Fall 2015)[9]  
Undergraduates |  25,722 (Fall 2015)[9]  
Postgraduates | 24,305 (Fall 2015)[9]  
Location | New York City, U.S.  
Campus | Urban 230-acre (0.93 km2)  
(Manhattan campus)[10]  
Colors | Purple and White[11]  
  
Athletics | NCAA Division III – UAA  
Nickname | Violets  
Website | www.nyu.edu  
  
**New York University** ( **NYU** ) is a private nonprofit research university
based in New York City. Founded in 1831, NYU's main campus is centered in
Manhattan, located with its core in Greenwich Village, and campuses based
throughout New York City.[12][13]

NYU is also a worldwide university, operating NYU Abu Dhabi and NYU Shanghai,
and centers in Accra, Berlin, Buenos Aires, Florence, London, Madrid, Paris,
Prague, Sydney, Tel Aviv, and Washington, D.C.[14][15]

Among its faculty and alumni are 37 Nobel Laureates, over 30 Pulitzer Prize
winners, over 30 Academy Award winners, and hundreds of members of the
National Academies of Sciences. Alumni include heads of state, royalty,
eminent mathematicians, inventors, media figures, Olympic medalists, CEOs of
Fortune 500 companies, and astronauts.[16][17][18]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 University logo
    * 1.2 Cultural setting
    * 1.3 Budget and fundraising
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 Washington Square campus
      * 2.1.1 Bobst Library
      * 2.1.2 New facilities
    * 2.2 Brooklyn campus
    * 2.3 Other campuses and facilities
      * 2.3.1 Campuses abroad
    * 2.4 Residence halls
    * 2.5 Sustainability
  * 3 Academics
    * 3.1 Schools and colleges
    * 3.2 Research
    * 3.3 Admissions
    * 3.4 Rankings
  * 4 Student life
    * 4.1 Student government
    * 4.2 Student organizations
    * 4.3 Greek life
    * 4.4 ROTC
  * 5 Athletics
  * 6 Faculty and alumni
  * 7 In popular culture
  * 8 See also
  * 9 References
  * 10 Further reading
  * 11 External links

## History

Main article: History of New York University

Albert Gallatin (1761-1849)

Albert Gallatin, Secretary of Treasury under Thomas Jefferson and James
Madison, declared his intention to establish "in this immense and fast-growing
city ... a system of rational and practical education fitting and graciously
opened to all".[1] A three-day-long "literary and scientific convention" held
in City Hall in 1830 and attended by over 100 delegates debated the terms of a
plan for a new university. These New Yorkers believed the city needed a
university designed for young men who would be admitted based upon merit
rather than birthright or social class.

On April 18, 1831, an institution was established, with the support of a group
of prominent New York City residents from the city's merchants, bankers, and
traders.[19] Albert Gallatin was elected as the institution's first
president.[20] On April 21, 1831, the new institution received its charter and
was incorporated as the University of the City of New York by the New York
State Legislature; older documents often refer to it by that name. The
university has been popularly known as New York University since its inception
and was officially renamed New York University in 1896.[20] In 1832, NYU held
its first classes in rented rooms of four-story Clinton Hall, situated near
City Hall.[20] In 1835, the School of Law, NYU's first professional school,
was established. Although the impetus to found a new school was partly a
reaction by evangelical Presbyterians to what they perceived as the
Episcopalianism of Columbia College,[21] NYU was created non-denominational,
unlike many American colleges at the time.[20] American Chemical Society was
founded in 1876 at NYU.

The University Heights campus, now home to Bronx Community College

It became one of the nation's largest universities, with an enrollment of
9,300 in 1917.[22] NYU had its Washington Square campus since its founding.
The university purchased a campus at University Heights in the Bronx because
of overcrowding on the old campus. NYU also had a desire to follow New York
City's development further uptown. NYU's move to the Bronx occurred in 1894,
spearheaded by the efforts of Chancellor Henry Mitchell MacCracken.[20] The
University Heights campus was far more spacious than its predecessor was. As a
result, most of the university's operations along with the undergraduate
College of Arts and Science and School of Engineering were housed there. NYU's
administrative operations were moved to the new campus, but the graduate
schools of the university remained at Washington Square.[23] In 1914,
Washington Square College was founded as the downtown undergraduate college of
NYU. In 1935, NYU opened the "Nassau College-Hofstra Memorial of New York
University at Hempstead, Long Island". This extension would later become a
fully independent Hofstra University.[24]

In 1950, NYU was elected to the Association of American Universities, a
nonprofit organization of leading public and private research
universities.[25][26]

In the late 1960s and early 1970s, financial crisis gripped the New York City
government and the troubles spread to the city's institutions, including
NYU.[27] Feeling the pressures of imminent bankruptcy, NYU President James
McNaughton Hester negotiated the sale of the University Heights campus to the
City University of New York, which occurred in 1973.[28] In 1973, the New York
University School of Engineering and Science merged into Polytechnic Institute
of Brooklyn,[29] which eventually merged into NYU in 2014 forming the present
Tandon School of Engineering. After the sale of the Bronx campus, University
College merged with Washington Square College. In the 1980s, under the
leadership of President John Brademas,[30] NYU launched a billion-dollar
campaign that was spent almost entirely on updating facilities.[31] The
campaign was set to complete in 15 years, but ended up being completed in
10.[32] In 2003 President John Sexton launched a $2.5 billion campaign for
funds to be spent especially on faculty and financial aid resources.[33]

In 2009, the university responded to a series of _New York Times_ interviews
that showed a pattern of labor abuses in its fledgling Abu Dhabi location,
creating a statement of labor values for Abu Dhabi campus workers. A 2014
follow-up article found that while some conditions had improved, contractors
for the multibillion-endowment university were still frequently subjecting
their workers to third-world labor conditions. The article documented that
these conditions included confiscation of worker passports, forced overtime,
recruitment fees and cockroach-filled dorms where workers had to sleep under
beds. According to the article, workers who attempted to protest the NYU
contractors' conditions were promptly arrested.[34] Reports also claimed that
those arrested by police were later abused at the police station. Many workers
who were not local were then deported to their home countries.[35] The
university quickly responded to the reports with an apology to the
workers.[36] In 2015, NYU compensated thousands of migrant workers on its Abu
Dhabi complex.[37]

From 2007 to 2017, NYU experienced a 96% increase in applications to its
university system, increasing from around 35,000 applicants to over 67,000 in
2017. This has caused, even with the addition of a substantially sized
engineering school, for the acceptance rate to significantly drop. NYU marked
its lowest acceptance rate in modern times in 2017, at a mere 27% of
applicants accepted.[38] At this rate of growth, NYU is projected to continue
to become one of the most exclusive establishments in the world for higher
education, even while hosting a student body of over 50,000.

NYU was the founding member of the League of World Universities, an
international organization consisting of rectors and presidents from urban
universities across six continents. The league and its 47 representatives
gather every two years to discuss global issues in education.[39] L. Jay Oliva
formed the organization in 1991 just after he was inaugurated president of New
York University.[40]

NYU's board of trustees is currently one of the largest and most powerful in
American academia.[41]

### University logo

The university logo, the upheld torch, is derived from the Statue of Liberty,
signifying NYU's service to New York City. The torch is depicted on both the
NYU seal and the more abstract NYU logo, designed in 1965 by renowned graphic
designer Tom Geismar of the branding and design firm Chermayeff & Geismar.
There are at least two versions of the possible origin of the university
color, violet. Some believe that it may have been chosen because violets are
said to have grown abundantly in Washington Square and around the buttresses
of the Old University Building. Others argue that the color may have been
adopted because the violet was the flower associated with Athens, the center
of learning in ancient Greece.

### Cultural setting

Washington Square and Greenwich Village have been hubs of cultural life in New
York City since the early 19th century. Much of this culture has intersected
with NYU at various points in its history. Artists of the Hudson River School,
the United States' first prominent school of painters, settled around
Washington Square. Samuel F.B. Morse, a noted artist who also pioneered the
telegraph and created the Morse Code, served as the first chair of Painting
and Sculpture. He and Daniel Huntington were early tenants of the Old
University Building in the mid-19th century. (The University rented out studio
space and residential apartments within the "academic" building.) As a result,
they had notable interaction with the cultural and academic life of the
university.[27]

In the 1870s, sculptors Augustus Saint-Gaudens and Daniel Chester French lived
and worked near the Square. By the 1920s, Washington Square Park was
nationally recognized as a focal point for artistic and moral rebellion. As
such, the Washington Square campus became more diverse and bustled with urban
energy, contributing to academic change at NYU.[27] Famed residents of this
time include Eugene O'Neill, John Sloan, and Maurice Prendergast. In the
1930s, the abstract expressionists Jackson Pollock and Willem de Kooning, and
the realists Edward Hopper and Thomas Hart Benton had studios around
Washington Square. In the 1960s the area became one of the centers of the beat
and folk generation, when Allen Ginsberg and Bob Dylan settled there. This led
to tension with the university, which at the time was in the midst of an
aggressive facilities expansion phase.[27] In 1975, the university opened The
Grey Art Gallery at 100 Washington Square East, housing the NYU art collection
and featuring museum quality exhibitions.[42][43]

### Budget and fundraising

NYU has successfully completed a seven-year, $2.5 billion campaign, surpassing
expectations by raising more than $3 billion over the seven-year period.[44]
Started in 2001, this campaign was the university's largest in its history, in
which they planned to "raise $1 million per day for scholarships and financial
aid, faculty building, new academic initiatives, and enhancing NYU's physical
facilities".[45] The campaign included a $50 million gift from the Tisch
family (after which one building and the art school are named) and a $60
million gift from six trustees called "The Partners Fund", aimed at hiring new
faculty.[45][46] On October 15, 2007 the university announced that the Silver
family donated $50 million to the School of Social Work, which will be renamed
as a result.[47] This is the largest donation ever to a school of social work
in the United States.[48]

The 2007–2008 academic year was the most successful fundraising year to date
for NYU, with the school raising $698 million in only the first 11 months of
the year, representing a 70% increase in donations from the prior year.[49]
The University also recently announced plans for NYU's Call to Action, a new
initiative to ask alumni and donors to support financial aid for students at
NYU.[50]

The university has announced a 25-year strategic development plan, scheduled
to coincide with its bicentennial in 2031. Included in the "NYU 200" plans are
increasing resident and academic space, hiring additional faculty, and
involving the New York City community in a transparent planning process.
Additionally, NYU hopes to make their buildings more environmentally friendly,
which will be facilitated by an evaluation of all campus spaces.[51] As a part
of this plan, NYU purchased 118 million kilowatt-hours of wind power during
the 2006–2007 academic year – the largest purchase of wind power by any
university in the country and any institution in New York City.[52] For 2007,
the university expanded its purchase of wind power to 132 million kilowatt-
hours.[53] As a result, the EPA ranked NYU as one of the greenest colleges in
the country in its annual College & University Green Power Challenge.[54]

NYU consistently ranks as one of the top fundraising institutions in the
country, raising $449.34 million in 2013 and $455.72 million in 2014.[55][56]
NYU is also the 19th wealthiest university in America with $5.3 billion in
cash and investments in fiscal year 2014.[57]

## Campus

The Silver Center c. 1900

Main article: Campus of New York University

NYU's campus in New York City includes more than 100 buildings in
Manhattan,[58] as well as several buildings in Brooklyn. Most of NYU's
buildings in Manhattan are located across a roughly 230-acre (930,000 m2) area
bounded by Houston Street to the south, Broadway to the east, 14th Street to
the north, and Sixth Avenue (Avenue of the Americas) to the west. The core of
NYU consists of buildings that surround Washington Square Park.[59][60][61]

With approximately 11,000 undergraduate and graduate residents,[62] NYU had
the seventh-largest university housing system in the U.S. as of 2007, and one
of the largest among private schools.[63]

### Washington Square campus

Washington Square Park, with its gateway arch, is surrounded largely by NYU
buildings and plays an integral role in the University's campus life.

Since the late 1970s, the central part of NYU has been its Washington Square
campus in the heart of Greenwich Village. The Washington Square Arch is an
unofficial symbol of NYU. Until 2007, NYU had held its commencement ceremonies
in Washington Square Park, but moved the ceremonies to Yankee Stadium in 2008
because of renovations to Washington Square.[64]

In the 1990s, NYU became a "two square" university by building a second
community around Union Square, in close proximity to Washington Square. NYU's
Union Square community primarily consists of the priority residence halls of
Carlyle Court, Palladium Residence Hall, Alumni Hall, Coral Tower, Thirteenth
Street Hall, University Hall, Third North Residence Hall, and Founders
Hall.[59]

NYU operates theaters and performance facilities that are often used by the
university's music conservatory and Tisch School of the Arts. External
productions are also occasionally held in NYU's facilities. The largest
performance accommodations at NYU are the Skirball Center for Performing Arts
(850 seats) at 566 LaGuardia Place, just south of Washington Square South, and
the Eisner-Lubin Auditorium (560 seats) in the Kimmel Center. Recently, the
Skirball Center hosted important speeches on foreign policy by John Kerry[65]
and Al Gore.[66] The Skirball Center is the largest performing arts facility
south of 42nd Street.[67][68]

#### Bobst Library

Main articles: Elmer Holmes Bobst Library and New York University Library

A view of the interior of Bobst

The Elmer Holmes Bobst Library, built between 1967 and 1972, is the largest
library at NYU and one of the largest academic libraries in the United States.
Designed by Philip Johnson and Richard Foster, the 12-story, 425,000-square-
foot (39,500 m2) structure sits on the southern edge of Washington Square Park
(at 70 Washington Square South) and is the flagship of an eight-library, 4.5
million-volume system. Bobst Library offers one Multidisciplinary Reference
Center, a Research Commons, 28 miles (45 km) of open-stacks shelving, and
approximately 2,000 seats for student study. The library is visited by more
than 6,800 users each day, and circulates more than one million books
annually.[69]

Bobst's Avery Fisher Center for Music and Media is one of the world's largest
academic media centers, where students and researchers use more than 95,000
audio and video recordings per year.[70] The Digital Studio offers a
constantly evolving, leading-edge resource for faculty and student projects
and promotes and supports access to digital resources for teaching, learning,
research and arts events.[71]

Bobst Library is also home to many special collections. The Fales Collection
houses collections of English and American fiction in the United States, the
unique Downtown Collection, documenting the New York literary avante-garde
arts scene from the 1970s to the present, and the Food and Cookery Collection,
which documents American food history with a focus on New York City. Bobst
Library also houses the Tamiment Library, which holds collections in labor
history, socialism, anarchism, communism, and American radicalism for
scholarly research. Tamiment includes the Robert F. Wagner Labor Archives, the
Archives of Irish America, the Center for the Cold War and the U.S., and the
Frederic Ewen Academic Freedom Center.[72]

#### New facilities

Since the early 2000s, NYU has developed new facilities on and around its
Washington Square Campus. The Kimmel Center for University Life was built in
2003 as the primary location for the university's student services offices. It
also houses the Skirball Center for the Performing Arts, the Rosenthal
Pavilion, the Eisner & Lubin Auditorium, and the Loeb Student Center. The
School of Law built Furman Hall in 2004, incorporating elements of two
historic buildings into the new facade, one of which had been occupied by poet
Edgar Allan Poe.[73]

In 2005, NYU announced the development of a new life science facility on
Waverly Place, the first new NYU science building since the opening of Meyer
Hall in 1971.[74] In November 2005, NYU announced plans to build a 26-floor,
190,000-square-foot (18,000 m2) residence hall on 12th Street. The residence
hall, named "Founders Hall", accommodates approximately 700 undergraduates and
contains a host of other student facilities. It is currently the tallest
building in the East Village.[75]

### Brooklyn campus

Bern Dibner Library of Science and Technology on the Brooklyn campus

NYU's Brooklyn campus is located at MetroTech Center, an urban academic-
industrial research park,[29] sits on top of the A C F subway lines, is only a
few blocks from the Brooklyn Bridge, and its connected to NYU's Manhattan
campus via the NYU Shuttle Bus System.[76][77] It houses the School of
Engineering, the Center for Urban Science and Progress and also several of
Tisch School of the Arts[78] and Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and
Human Development's degree programs.[79] The Brooklyn campus also houses NYU's
Game Center Open Library, which is the largest collection of games held by any
university in the world.[78] In 2014, NYU Langone Medical Center acquired a
125,000 square feet (11,600 m2) healthcare facility in Brooklyn.[80] Quickly
following this announcement, NYU announced in 2017 that it would invest over
$500 million in the coming years to renovate and expand its Brooklyn
campus.[81]

### Other campuses and facilities

11 West 42nd Street

La Maison Française

The New York University School of Medicine is situated near the East River
waterfront at 550 First Avenue between East 30th and 34th Streets. The campus
hosts the medical school, Tisch Hospital, and the Rusk Institute of
Rehabilitation Medicine.[82] Other NYU Centers across the city include NYU
Hospital for Joint Diseases and the Bellevue Hospital Center.[83][84] NYU's
Silver School of Social Work (formerly Ehrenkranz School of Social Work)
manages branch campus programs in Westchester County at Sarah Lawrence College
and in Rockland County at St. Thomas Aquinas College.[85]

In Sterling Forest, near Tuxedo, NYU has a research facility that contains
institutes, in particular the Nelson Institute of Environmental Medicine.[86]
The Midtown Center at 11 West 42nd Street is home to the NYU Schack Institute
of Real Estate. The Woolworth Building in the financial district is home to
NYU's professional studies and education programs.[87]

NYU has two units located on the Upper East Side. The Institute for the Study
of the Ancient World, a discrete entity within NYU, independent of any other
school or department of the university, is located on East 84th Street,[88]
while the New York University Institute of Fine Arts, a graduate school of art
history and fine arts, is located at the James B. Duke Building at 1 East 78th
Street.[89]

NYU has international houses on its Manhattan campus, including the Deutsches
Haus, La Maison Française, Casa Italiana Zerilli Marimò, the Glucksman Ireland
House, the King Juan Carlos I of Spain Center, the Hagop Kevorkian Center, an
Africa House and a China House.[90]

#### Campuses abroad

Tisch School of the Arts, Asia was NYU's first branch campus abroad. The
result of a partnership between Tisch School of the Arts and the Singapore
Government, it offered Master of Fine Arts degrees in animation and digital
arts, dramatic writing, film and international media producing. The campus
opened in fall 2007 with the intention to enroll approximately 250
students.[91] Anticipated enrolment figures were not achieved, financial
irregularities were alleged and President Pari Sara Shirazi was dismissed from
her post by NYU in November 2011.[92] She subsequently announced her intention
to commence legal proceedings against NYU alleging wrongful termination and
defamation.[93] In a letter to the Tisch Asia community dated November 8,
2012, Dean Mary Schmidt Campbell announced that the campus would close after
2014 with recruitment and admission of new students suspended with immediate
effect.[94] In 2016, three former students of the now defunct Tisch Asia sued
NYU.[95][96]

NYU has a host of foreign facilities used for study abroad programs, referred
to as Global Academic Centers. As of 2012, NYU operates 14 academic sites –
both degree-granting research university campuses and study abroad sites – in
Africa, Asia and the Middle East, Australia, Europe, North America, and South
America, including undergraduate academic-year and summer study abroad
programs in New York City, Florence, London, Paris, Prague, Berlin, Accra,
Madrid, Shanghai, Buenos Aires, Tel Aviv, Abu Dhabi, Sydney, and Washington,
D.C.[97][98] One of the most noteworthy is the 57-acre (230,000 m2) campus of
NYU Florence Villa LaPietra in Italy, bequeathed by the late Sir Harold Acton
to NYU in 1994.[99]

In fall 2010, NYU Abu Dhabi (NYUAD) opened as the university's first overseas
"Portal Campus" with an inaugural class of 150 students.[100] Unlike NYU's
other study abroad centers, NYUAD functions as a separate liberal arts college
within a university, offering complete degree programs to students admitted
directly to NYUAD. NYUAD recruits students from all over the world and
describes itself as the "World's Honor College". The main campus for NYUAD is
under construction on Saadiyat Island and is scheduled to open in 2014. Until
then the school operates from a campus located in downtown Abu Dhabi.[101] The
campus construction and operational costs are entirely funded by the Abu Dhabi
government.[102]

In 2011, NYU announced plans to open another portal campus, New York
University Shanghai, for the fall semester of 2013. It was set to have about
3,000 undergraduate students, the majority of whom would be Chinese. It was
approved by the Ministry of Education of the People's Republic of China in
January 2011.[103] NYU's local partner will be East China Normal University
(ECNU). ECNU's president Yu Lizhong will be the chancellor and play a major
role in government relations while Jeffrey S. Lehman, former president of
Cornell amongst other positions, will serve as vice chancellor and have "free
rein in academic affairs".[104]

In spring 2014, NYU opened a new campus in Paris, in the student area of the
Quartier Latin, where NYU Law set up an EU Regulatory Policy Clinic taught by
Alberto Alemanno and Vincent Chauvet.[105]

### Residence halls

Main article: New York University residence halls

Washington Square Village, home to NYU faculty and graduate students

NYU houses approximately 12,500 undergraduate and graduate residents,[62] and
had the seventh-largest university housing system in the U.S. as of 2007, and
one of the largest among private schools.[63] NYU's undergraduate housing
system consists of more than 20 residence halls.[62] Uniquely, many of NYU's
residence halls are converted apartment complexes or old hotels. In general,
NYU residence halls receive favorable ratings, and some are opulent. Many
rooms are spacious and contain amenities considered rare for individual
college residence hall rooms, such as kitchens, lavatories, living rooms and
common areas.[106] The university operates its own transit system to transport
its students by bus to its campus.[107]

Undergraduate students are guaranteed housing during their enrollment at NYU.
Most freshman residence halls are located near the Washington Square area.
While nearly all of the residence halls that primarily house sophomores are
located near the Union Square area, two former residence halls were located in
the Financial District and one is still in use in Chinatown.[108][109] Two
residence halls are located in and around the MetroTech Commons, intended to
serve NYU's Brooklyn Campus. All of NYU's residence halls are governed by the
Inter-Residence Hall Council (IRHC), an umbrella student council
organization.[110]

In 2007, the National Association of College and University Residence Halls
(NACURH) named NYU the National School of the Year for IRHC and NRHH's strong
efforts over the past year. In addition, NYU was named the National Program of
the Year for UltraViolet Live, the annual inter-hall competition that raises
funds for Relay For Life.[111]

### Sustainability

NYU has made the greening of its campus a large priority. For example, NYU has
been the largest university purchaser of wind energy in the U.S. since
2009.[112] With this switch to renewable power, NYU is achieving benefits
equivalent to removing 12,000 cars from the road or planting 72,000 trees. In
May 2008, the NYU Sustainability Task Force awarded $150,000 in grants to 23
projects that would focus research and efforts toward energy, food, landscape,
outreach, procurement, transportation and waste.[113] These projects include a
student-led bike-sharing program modeled after Paris' Velib program with 30
bikes free to students, staff, and faculty. NYU received a grade of "B" on the
College Sustainability Report Card 2010 from the Sustainable Endowments
Institute.[114]

NYU purchased 118 million kilowatt-hours of wind power during the 2006–2007
academic year – the largest purchase of wind power by any university in the
country and any institution in New York City.[52] For 2007, the university
expanded its purchase of wind power to 132 million kilowatt-hours.[53]

The EPA ranked NYU as one of the greenest colleges in the country in its
annual College & University Green Power Challenge.[54]

## Academics

### Schools and colleges

Flags identify NYU buildings around the city. This flag is for the Gallatin
School of Individualized Study.

New York University comprises the following schools and colleges:[12]

  * Arts & Science

    

  * College of Arts and Science
  * Graduate School of Arts and Science
  * Liberal Studies

  * Center for Urban Science and Progress
  * College of Dentistry
  * College of Global Public Health
  * Rory Meyers College of Nursing
  * Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences
  * Gallatin School of Individualized Study
  * Institute of Fine Arts
  * Institute for the Study of the Ancient World
  * Leonard N. Stern School of Business
  * NYU Abu Dhabi
  * NYU Shanghai
  * Robert F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service
  * Silver School of Social Work
  * School of Law
  * School of Medicine
  * School of Professional Studies
  * Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development
  * Tandon School of Engineering
  * Tisch School of the Arts

Arts and Science is currently NYU's largest academic division. It has three
subdivisions: the College of Arts and Science, the Graduate School of Arts and
Science, and the Liberal Studies program.[12] The College of Arts and Science
and Liberal Studies program are undergraduate divisions, and the former has
existed since the founding of NYU.[115]

Undergraduate divisions are also found in the College of Dentistry, College of
Nursing, Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences, Gallatin School of
Individualized Study, Leonard N. Stern School of Business, NYU Abu Dhabi, NYU
Shanghai, Tandon School of Engineering,[116] Silver School of Social Work,
School of Professional Studies, Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and
Human Development, and the Tisch School of the Arts. Postgraduate divisions
are found in all of NYU's schools and colleges.[12]

### Research

NYU manages one of the largest annual collegiate research budgets of any
university in the United States. In 2014, NYU received $524 million in
research grants from the National Science Foundation alone.[117] NYU School of
Medicine received $305 million in external research funding from the National
Institutes of Health in 2014. NYU was granted 90 patents in 2014, the 19th
most of any institution in the world.[118] NYU owns the fastest supercomputer
in New York City.[119] As of 2016, NYU hardware researchers and their
collaborators enjoy the largest outside funding level for hardware security of
any institution in the United States, including grants from the National
Science Foundation (NSF), the Office of Naval Research, the Defense Advanced
Research Projects Agency (DARPA), the United States Army Research Laboratory,
the Air Force Research Laboratory, the Semiconductor Research Corporation, and
companies including Boeing, Microsoft, and Google.[120]

### Admissions

**Fall Freshman Statistics**[121]

  | 2017 | 2015 | 2014 | 2013 | 2012 | 2011  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Applicants | 67,232 | 57,727 | 50,804 | 45,779 | 42,807 | 41,243  
Admits | 18,520 | 18,515 | 18,010 | 14,829 | 14,998 | 13,487  
 % Admitted | 27.5 | 32.1 | 35.4 | 32.4 | 35.0 | 32.7  
Enrolled |  | 5,927 | 5,913 | 5,207 | 5,140 | 4,870  
Avg GPA |  |  |  |  |  |  
Avg SAT |  |  |  |  |  |  
*(out of 2400)  
  
Admission to NYU is highly selective. For the undergraduate class of 2021,
18,520 were admitted from an applicant pool of 67,232 (27%), the lowest in its
school's history.[122] As of 2016, NYU's graduate schools have acceptance
rates of 1.8% to the School of Medicine, 23% to the School of Business,[123]
28% to the School of Engineering,[124] 29% to the Graduate School of Arts and
Science,[125] and 34% to the School of Law.[126]

Total undergraduate freshman enrollment is 5,917 for the 2015–2016 academic
year, representing 49 states and 91 countries, with 19% as non-US citizens.
Most freshmen have a typical unweighted GPA of 3.5/A (90–95%) and are in the
top 10% of their high school graduating class. The middle 50% of freshmen
score between 1900 and 2150 on the SAT and between 29 and 32 on the ACT. The
student-to-faculty ratio at the New York campus is 10:1, and less than that at
the Abu Dhabi and Shanghai campuses. The average scholarship amount awarded to
freshmen is $29,528, and 21% of freshmen received Pell Grants.[127]

As of 2016, average MCAT score of students at the School of Medicine is
36/45,[128] average GMAT score of graduate students at the School of Business
is 710/800,[123] average GRE quant score of graduate students at the School of
Engineering is 169.3/170,[129] and average LSAT score of students at the
School of Law is 171/180.[130]

### Rankings

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[131] |  22  
_Forbes_[132] |  77  
_U.S. News& World Report_[133] |  30  
_Washington Monthly_[134] |  174  
Global  
_ARWU_[135] |  29  
_QS_[136] |  46  
_Times_[137] |  32  
_U.S. News& World Report_[138] |  27  
School rankings  
---  
**2016 _U.S. News & World Report_ Rank**[139] | **#**  
  
* * *  
  
Business | 20  
Engineering | 46  
Law | 6  
Medicine (Research) | 11  
Education | 15  
  
Nationally, NYU is ranked 14th in the Center for World University
Rankings,[140] 15th by Global Language Monitor,[141] 19th by _QS World
University Rankings_ ,[142] 22nd in the _Academic Ranking of World
Universities_ , 24th by _Business Insider_ ,[143] and 30th by _U.S. News&
World Report_.

Globally, NYU is ranked 18th in the Center for World University Rankings,[140]
17th in International Colleges and Universities,[144] 29th in the _Academic
Ranking of World Universities_ , 32nd in the _Times Higher Education World
University Rankings_ , and 46th in the _QS World University Rankings_.
Additionally, NYU is ranked 20th in the _Times Higher Education World
University Rankings_ Reputation Rankings.[145]

_U.S. News & World Report_ ranks NYU's graduate schools 6th for law, 6th for
public policy, 9th for math (1st for applied math[146]), 10th for Occupational
therapy under Steinhardt School of Culture, Education, and Human Development,
10th for business, 11th for economics, 15th for political science, 19th for
medical school research, 20th for education, 21st for nursing, 27th for
physical therapy, 29th for computer science, 30th for psychology, and 46th for
engineering.[147]

Globally, NYU's social sciences are ranked 8th by the _Academic Ranking of
World Universities_ ,[148] 15th by the _Times Higher Education World
University Rankings_ ,[149] and 16th by the _QS World University
Rankings_.[150] NYU is globally ranked 11th for psychology by the _QS World
University Ranking_.[151] The Social Psychology Network ranks NYU 5th for
industrial/organizational psychology, 14th for clinical psychology,[152] and
_U.S. News & World Report_ ranks NYU 9th for social psychology and 9th for
behavioral neuroscience.[153]

_U.S. News & World Report_ ranks the New York University School of Law 1st for
tax law and 1st for international law. The publication also ranks The Robert
F. Wagner Graduate School of Public Service 6th in public policy.[154] The NYU
Department of Philosophy is globally ranked 1st by _The Philosophical Gourmet
Report_[155] and the _QS World University Rankings_.[156] In _The Los Angeles
Times_ , NYU Tisch School of Arts is ranked 1st for film by Ranker.[157][158]
NYU is ranked 1st for New Ivies by college resource guide Unigo.[159] In 2006,
NYU was named by Kaplan as one of the "New Ivies".[160] The annual Global
Employability Survey in The New York Times ranks NYU 11th nationally and 29th
globally for employability.[161][162] For four consecutive years NYU has been
ranked as America's "#1 dream school" by the Princeton Review.[163] NYU is
consistently ranked as a "Top 10 Dream College" for both parents and students
according to The Princeton Review. Alongside Stanford University, Harvard
College, Princeton University, and Massachusetts Institute of Technology, NYU
is one of few universities to regularly appear in the top 10 list for both
parents and students.[164] NYU ranks 19th in the world based on the number of
patents generated.[165]

NYU ranked 7th among the _World's top 100 universities for producing
millionaires_ , as compiled by _Times Higher Education World University
Rankings_.[166] NYU ranked 5th globally among universities with the highest
number of alumni worth $30 million or more, as compiled by ABC News.[167] CNBC
ranked NYU 4th globally among universities with the most billionaire
graduates.[168]

##  Student life

### Student government

The Student Senators Council is the governing student body at NYU. The SSC has
been involved in controversial debates on campus, including a campuswide ban
on the sale of Coca-Cola products in 2005, and the Graduate Student Organizing
Committee unionization in 2001 and subsequent strike in
2005.[169][170][171][172] This ban was lifted by the University Senate on
February 5, 2009.[173]

### Student organizations

A bus system transports students to and from the far ends of campus.

NYU has over 450 student clubs and organizations on campus.[174] In addition
to the sports teams, fraternities, sororities, and study clubs, there are many
organizations on campus that focus on entertainment, arts, and culture. These
organizations include various student media clubs: for instance, the daily
student newspaper the _Washington Square News_ , the NYU Local daily blog,
_The Plague_ comedy magazine, " _Washington Square Local_ web-based satire
news source, and the literary journals _Washington Square Review_ and _The
Minetta Review_ , as well as student-run event producers such as the NYU
Program Board and the Inter-Residence Hall Council. It also operates radio
station WNYU-FM 89.1 with a diverse college radio format, transmitting to the
entire New York metropolitan area from the original campus, and via booster
station WNYU-FM1 which fills in the signal in lower Manhattan from atop one of
the Silver Towers, next to the football field at the Washington Square
campus.[175][176]

The New York University Mock Trial team is consistently ranked as one of the
best collegiate mock trial teams in the country. NYU has qualified for the
National Championship Tournament for 10 consecutive seasons and placed in the
top 10 during each of those years. In the 2009–2010 season, NYU won the 26th
National Championship Tournament in Memphis over rival Harvard.[177] The
following season, they qualified for the final round once more only to be the
runners-up to UCLA.[178] In the American Mock Trial Association's 2015–2016
power rankings, NYU ranks third, behind Harvard and Yale.[179]

During the University Heights era, an apparent rift evolved with some
organizations distancing themselves from students from the downtown schools.
The exclusive Philomathean Society operated from 1832 to 1888 (formally giving
way in 1907 and reconstituted into the Andiron Club). Included among the
Andiron's regulations was "Rule No.11: Have no relations save the most casual
and informal kind with the downtown schools".[180] The Eucleian Society, rival
to the Philomathean Society, was founded in 1832. The Knights of the Lamp was
a social organization founded in 1914 at the School of Commerce. This
organization met every full moon and had a glowworm as its mascot.[181] The
Red Dragon Society, founded in 1898, is thought to be the most selective
society at NYU. In addition, NYU's first yearbook was formed by fraternities
and "secret societies" at the university.[182]

NYU has traditions which have persisted across campuses. Since the beginning
of the 20th century initiation ceremonies have welcomed incoming NYU freshmen.
At the Bronx University Heights Campus, seniors used to grab unsuspecting
freshmen, take them to a horse-watering trough, and then dunk them head-first
into what was known colloquially as "the Fountain of Knowledge". This
underground initiation took place until the 1970s.[183] Today freshmen take
part in university-sponsored activities during what is called "Welcome
Week".[184] In addition, throughout the year the university traditionally
holds Apple Fest (an apple-themed country fest that began at the University
Heights campus), the Violet Ball (a dance in the atrium of Bobst Library),
Strawberry Fest (featuring New York City's longest Strawberry Shortcake), and
the semi-annual midnight breakfast where Student Affairs administrators serve
free breakfast to students before finals.[185]

Students publish a campus comedy magazine, _The Plague_. Like many college
humor magazines, this often pokes fun at popular culture as well as campus
life and the idiosyncrasies of New York University.[186] _The Plague_ was
founded in 1978[187] by Howard Ostrowsky along with Amy Burns, John Rawlins,
Joe Pinto and Dan Fiorella,[188] and is currently published once per
semester.[189] It is not NYU's first humor magazine, as _The Medley_ was a
humor magazine published by the Eucleian Society from 1913 to 1950.[186]

###  Greek life

Some of the first fraternities in the country were formed at NYU.[190][191]
Greek life first formed on the NYU campus in 1837 when Psi Upsilon chartered
its Delta Chapter.[190] The first fraternities at NYU were social ones. With
their athletic, professional, intellectual, and service activities, later
groups sought to attract students who also formed other groups. Since then,
Greek letter organizations have proliferated to include 25 social fraternities
and sororities. As of 2014, approximately 13% of NYU students are members of
fraternities or sororities.[192]

Four governing boards oversee Greek life at the university. The
Interfraternity Council (IFC) has jurisdiction over all twelve recognized
fraternities on campus. Eight sororities are under the jurisdiction of the
Panhellenic Council (PhC), which features seven national sororities (ΔΦΕ, ΑΕΦ,
ΑΣΤ, ΠΒΦ, ΚΚΓ, ΖΤΑ, ΔΓ) and two local sororities (ΑΦΖ and ΘΦΒ). Five
multicultural organizations maintain membership in the Multicultural Greek
Council (MGC), including two fraternities and three sororities. All three of
the aforementioned boards are managed under the auspices of the Inter-Greek
Council.[193]

Greek organizations have historical significance at NYU. Delta Phi Epsilon,
Zeta Psi, Alpha Epsilon Pi, Tau Delta Phi,[194] Alpha Kappa Psi and Delta
Sigma Pi were founded at NYU. Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America was
chartered in 1847,[191] Delta Sigma Pi in 1907,[195] and Alpha Epsilon Pi in
1913.[196] Delta Phi Epsilon was founded in 1917.[197] The NYU Gamma chapter
of Delta Phi, founded in 1841, is the longest continuously active fraternity
chapter in the world, having never gone inactive since its establishment.
Delta Phi is also the oldest continuously active fraternity in the United
States, being the only organization in the original Union Triad to remain
active since its institute.[198] The NYU Gamma chapter of Zeta Beta Tau is the
oldest active ΖΒΤ chapter in the country.[199]

### ROTC

NYU does not have an ROTC program on campus. However, NYU students may
participate in the U.S. Army ROTC program through NYC Army ROTC, headquartered
at Fordham University.[200]

## Athletics

Main article: NYU Violets

NYU's sports teams are referred to as the NYU Violets, the colors being the
trademarked hue "NYU Violet" and white. Since 1981, the school mascot has been
a bobcat, whose origin can be traced back to the abbreviation then being used
by the Bobst Library computerized catalog—short: Bobcat.[201] NYU's sports
teams include baseball, men's and women's varsity basketball, cross country,
fencing, golf, soccer, softball, swimming and diving, tennis, track and field,
volleyball, and wrestling.[202] All of NYU's sports teams participate in the
NCAA's Division III and the University Athletic Association, with the
exception of fencing, which participates in Division I.[203] While NYU has had
All-American football players, the school has not had a varsity football team
since 1952.[204]

NYU students also compete in club and intramural sports, including badminton,
baseball, basketball, crew, cycling, equestrianism, ice hockey, lacrosse,
martial arts, rugby, softball, squash, tennis, triathlon, and ultimate. The
Coles Sports and Recreation Center serves as the home base of several of NYU's
intercollegiate athletic teams. Many of NYU's varsity teams play their games
at various facilities and fields throughout Manhattan because of the scarcity
of space for playing fields near campus. In 2002, NYU opened the Palladium
Athletic Facility as the second on-campus recreational facility.[205][206]

## Faculty and alumni

Main articles: List of New York University alumni and List of New York
University faculty

NYU has 470,000 living alumni as of 2015.[207] At least 37 Nobel Prize winners
are affiliated with NYU. NYU is associated with a great number of important
inventions and discoveries. For example, cardiac defibrillator and artificial
cardiac pacemaker (Barouh Berkovits), closed-chest cardiac defibrillator
(William B. Kouwenhoven), laser (Gordon Gould), atom bomb (Frederick Reines),
polio vaccine (Albert Sabin), RFID (Mario Cardullo), telephone handset (Robert
G. Brown), wireless microphone (Hung-Chang Lin), first digital image scanner
(Russell A. Kirsch), television (Benjamin Adler), light beer (Joseph Owades),
non-stick cookware (John Gilbert),[208] black hole thermodynamics (Jacob
Bekenstein), polymer science (Herman Francis Mark), microwave (Ernst Weber),
X-ray crystallography (Paul Peter Ewald), barcode (Jerome Swartz), structure
of the DNA (Francis Crick), tau lepton (Martin Lewis Perl), processes for
creating food coloring, decaffeination and sugar substitute (Torunn Atteraas
Garin), processes for the mass production of penicillin (Jasper H. Kane),
X-ray generator and rotational radiation therapy (John G. Trump), nuclear
reactor and hydrogen bomb (John Archibald Wheeler), and contact lenses (Norman
Gaylord), among many others. Alumnus Fred Waller who invented Cinerama and the
Waller Gunnery Trainer, also obtained the first patent for a water ski. The
first patents for touch screen cash machine (Richard J. Orford),[209][210] and
zoom lens (Leonard Bergstein),[211] were also obtained by NYU alumni. Some of
the most prolific inventors in American history are NYU alumni, for example
Jerome H. Lemelson whose 605 patents involved the cordless telephone, fax
machine, videocassette recorder and camcorder, among others; Samuel Ruben
whose inventions include electric battery; James Wood who invented cable-lift
elevator, fabricated the steel cables for the Brooklyn Bridge and contributed
to the development of lockmaking, submarine, electric generator, electric
motor, transformer and the design of the refrigerator; and Albert Macovski
whose innovations include the single-tube color camera and real-time phased
array imaging for ultrasound. NYU is the birthplace of the tractor beam and
5G.[212] Before and during World War II, NYU's Tandon School of Engineering
worked on problems whose solution led to the development of radar, and later
broke ground in electromagnetic theory, electronics in general, and solved re-
entry problems of the manned space capsules,[213] as well as helped develop
and design the NASDAQ Automated Quote System and trading floors.[214]
Developer of the early telephone systems in the United States Bancroft
Gherardi Jr., developer of the submarine communications facilities Jack M.
Sipress, inventor of Italy's first computer Mario Tchou, designer of the
Panama Canal locks Henry C. Goldmark, designer of the Pentagon Hugh John
Casey, designer of the Apollo Lunar Module Thomas J. Kelly, as well as the
designer of virtually every major bridge in New York City from the George
Washington to the Verrazano, Leopold Just,[215] are also NYU alumni.

Many of the world's most renowned companies, such as IBM (Charles Ranlett
Flint), Twitter (Jack Dorsey), Bloomberg L.P. (Charles Zegar), Jacobs
Engineering Group (Joseph J. Jacobs), Hudson Group (Robert B. Cohen), MTV (Tom
Freston), Barnes & Noble (Leonard Riggio), Northrop Grumman (William T.
Schwendler), Automatic Data Processing (Henry Taub), Duracell (Samuel Ruben),
Bugle Boy (William C. W. Mow), Virgin Mobile USA (Dan Schulman), among many
others, were founded or co-founded by NYU alumni. Likewise, many of the
world's most famous companies were either owned or led by NYU alumni. For
example, Lockheed Martin (Robert J. Stevens), Xerox (Ursula Burns), Yahoo!
(Alfred Amoroso), TPV Technology (Jason Hsuan), 20th Century Fox (Marvin
Davis), BAE Systems Inc (Mark Ronald), AECOM (John Dionisio), Pfizer (John
Elmer McKeen), Ingersoll Rand (Herbert L. Henkel), General Motors (Alfred P.
Sloan), Sears (Arthur C. Martinez), The New York Times (Spencer Trask),
Stanley Black & Decker (John Trani), American International Group (Harvey
Golub), American Express (Edward P. Gilligan), Qwest (Joseph Nacchio), Chase
Bank (Walter V. Shipley), CBS (Laurence Alan Tisch), Bristol-Myers Squibb
Company (Charles A. Heimbold, Jr.), Citigroup (Robert I. Lipp), Morgan Stanley
(Robert A. Kindler), Marvel Entertainment (John Turitzin), ConocoPhillips
(John Carrig), Deloitte (Barry Salzberg), Sony Pictures Entertainment (Peter
Guber), GQ (Steven Florio), Viacom (Thomas E. Dooley), Liberty Media (John C.
Malone), Verizon (Lawrence Babbio Jr.) and Chemtura (Vincent A. Calarco), just
to name a few. Pioneer of Silicon Valley, Eugene Kleiner,[216] and World Trade
Center site owner, Larry Silverstein, are also alumni of NYU.

The following are examples of some of the many notable members of some of the
many notable graduating classes: class of 1941, which graduated three later
Nobel Prize laureates (Julius Axelrod, Gertrude B. Elion and Clifford Shull),
Olympic Gold Medalist John Woodruff, sportscaster Howard Cosell, former dean
of Duke University's School of Engineering Walter J. Seeley and sociologist
Morris Janowitz; 1951 included professor emeritus at MIT and former DARPA
director Jack Ruina, former chair of the Computer Science Department at
University of California, Berkeley Martin H. Graham and Cathleen Synge
Morawetz, first woman recipient of National Medal of Science; 1957 included
Pulitzer Prize winning author Frank McCourt, former dean of Northwestern
University's School of Engineering and Applied Science Bruno A. Boley and
former president of Technion-Israel Institute of Technology Josef Singer; 1964
included former Chief Engineer of NASA Johnson Space Center Jay Greene, Turing
Award winner Judea Pearl, former Cooper Union Engineering School Dean and the
first female dean of an engineering school in the United States Eleanor K.
Baum, former chair of the Division of Engineering and Applied Science at
California Institute of Technology K. Mani Chandy, former Vice Provost and
Dean of Research at Stanford University Arthur Bienenstock, former head of the
Nuclear Science and Engineering Department at Massachusetts Institute of
Technology Jeffrey P. Freidberg, former scientist of the NASA Jet Propulsion
Laboratory and the first space tourist to fund his own trip into space Dennis
Tito, former Commissioner of the National Football League (NFL) Paul
Tagliabue, and film director Martin Scorsese; 1974 included astronaut and
Senior Advisor for Engineering Development at NASA Langley Research Center
Charles Camarda, chairman of the chemical engineering department at Johns
Hopkins University Jerome Gavis, United States Navy Captain and astronaut Lee
Morin and astronaut and NASA Space Flight Medalist Paolo Nespoli; and 1977
included: former Fed Chairman Alan Greenspan; IRS Commissioner Mark Everson;
former INSEAD Dean Gabriel Hawawini;[217] Pulitzer, Oscar and Tony Award
winner John Patrick Shanley; NHL Commissioner Gary Bettman; NASDAQ CEO Robert
Greifeld; Ma Ying-jeou president of Taiwan; Guillermo Endara president of
Panama, Clive Davis music industry executive, and Cathy Minehan, Federal
Reserve Chairman Boston.

## In popular culture

Main article: New York University in popular culture

NYU has been portrayed in books, movies and television shows, and the campus
of NYU has been the backdrop for a number of different books and movies.

## See also

  * Silicon Alley

  * New York City portal
  * University portal

## References

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "About NYU". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  August 30, 2013. 
  2. **^** As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  3. **^** NYU Web Communications. "Fiscal 2016 Budget". 
  4. **^** NYU Web Communications. "The Election of William Berkley, Stern '66, as Chair-Designate of the NYU Board of Trustees". _nyu.edu_.  
  5. **^** NYU Web Communications. "Office of the Provost". _nyu.edu_.  
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "College Navigator - New York University". _Nces.ed.gov_. Retrieved  2016-02-17. 
  7. **^** "Common Data Set 2012–2013" (PDF). _Institutional Research and Program Evaluation_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  8. **^** The total number of administration staff listed here refers to the total number of employees in office and administrative support occupations at the Washington Square and School of Medicine campuses only.
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "College Navigator - New York University". _ed.gov_.  
  10. **^** Orlando Sentinel (December 5, 2013). "NYU college tour: Great school but very expensive - Orlando Sentinel". _OrlandoSentinel.com_.  
  11. **^** "New York University Graphic Standards and Logo Usage Guide, second edition, February 2010" (PDF). New York University. Retrieved August 10, 2015. 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Schools and Colleges". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  August 30, 2013. 
  13. **^** New York University (2013-08-15), _Mayor Bloomberg: It's hard to differentiate where NYU stops and NYC starts_ , retrieved 2017-01-25 
  14. **^** "Global Academic Centers". _New York University_.  
  15. **^** "The Global Network University". _New York University_. New York University. Archived from the original on August 25, 2013. Retrieved  August 30, 2013. 
  16. **^** O'Donnell, Paul (February 20, 2013). "Billionaire U: Why Harvard Mints Mega-Rich Alums". _CNBC_. CNBC LLC. Retrieved  November 22, 2015. 
  17. **^** "These 7 Schools Have the Richest Alumni — Is Yours On the List?". _mic.com_. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. 
  18. **^** "World's top 100 universities for producing millionaires". _Times Higher Education_. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. 
  19. **^** Frusciano, Thomas & Pettit, Marilyn (1997). _New York University and the City: An Illustrated History_. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press.  
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Friss, Evan. "A Window Into the Past: NYU in Retrospect". _NYU Archives_. New York University. Retrieved  August 30, 2013. 
  21. **^** Burrows, Edwin G. & Wallace, Mike (1999), _Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898_ , New York: Oxford University Press, ISBN 0-195-11634-8  pp. 531–532
  22. **^** Jackson, Kenneth T., ed. (1995), _The Encyclopedia of New York City_ , New Haven: Yale University Press, ISBN 0300055366 , pp 848–49
  23. **^** "175 Facts About NYU". NYU.edu. Retrieved  December 29, 2010. 
  24. **^** "Capital Campaign". Hofstra University. Archived from the original on December 23, 2008. Retrieved  February 22, 2009. 
  25. **^** "Member Institutions and Years of Admission". _Association of American Universities_. Association of American Universities. Retrieved  August 30, 2013. 
  26. **^** "About AAU". _Association of American Universities_. Association of American Universities. Retrieved  August 30, 2013. 
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "NYU and the Village: History". New York University Archives. Retrieved  July 17, 2007. 
  28. **^** Chronopoulos, Themis. "Urban Decline and the Withdrawal of New York University from University Heights, The Bronx". _The Bronx County Historical Society Journal_ XLVI (Spring/Fall 2009): 4–24". Archived from the original on October 31, 2014. Retrieved  December 6, 2012. 
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sanz, Cynthia (January 5, 1986). "Brooklyn'S Polytech, A Storybook Success". _The New York Times_. The New York Times Company. Retrieved  November 22, 2015. 
  30. **^** Laura Turegano (December 13, 2001). ""Fundraising Beyond U.S. Borders – NYU: A Success Story"". _Onphilanthropy.com_. Archived from the original on January 5, 2006. Retrieved  October 18, 2016. 
  31. **^** Weiss, Kenneth R. (March 22, 2000). "NYU Earns Respect" (PDF). _Los Angeles Times_. Retrieved  October 11, 2007. 
  32. **^** Honan, William H. (March 20, 1995). "Buying Excellence: How N.Y.U. Rebuilt Itself – A special report.; Decade and $1 Billion Put N.Y.U. With the Elite". The New York Times. Retrieved March 5, 2008. 
  33. **^** "NYU Kicks Off $2.5 Billion Campaign". NYU Office for University Development and Alumni relations. January 2005. Archived from the original on June 12, 2007. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  34. **^** Kaminer, Ariel (May 18, 2014). "Workers at N.Y.U.'s Abu Dhabi Site Faced Harsh Conditions". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  May 20, 2014. 
  35. **^** Kaminer, Ariel; O'Driscoll, Sean (May 18, 2014). "Workers at N.Y.U.'s Abu Dhabi Site Faced Harsh Conditions". _The New York Times_.  
  36. **^** "N.Y.U. Apologizes to Any Workers Mistreated on Its Abu Dhabi Campus". _The New York Times_. May 20, 2014.  
  37. **^** David Batty. "NYU set to compensate thousands of migrant workers on Abu Dhabi complex | Global development". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  2016-02-17. 
  38. **^** "NYU Marks 10 Straight Years of Record Applications".  
  39. **^** "League of World Universities meets for forum". Minnesota Daily. October 2, 2002. Archived from the original on April 14, 2008. Retrieved  October 11, 2007. 
  40. **^** "Higher Education Leaders From Around the World Meet at NYU to Discuss Financial Challenges and Fundraising". NYU Office of Public Affairs. February 12, 1999. Retrieved  October 11, 2007. 
  41. **^** "New Chairman of Board at N.Y.U. Is Announced". _The New York Times_. June 14, 2014.  
  42. **^** "Home - Grey Gallery". _Grey Gallery_.  
  43. **^** "Home - Grey Gallery". _Grey Gallery_.  
  44. **^** Masterson, Kathryn (2008). "NYU Sets Record With $3.1-Billion Campaign". Retrieved November 1, 2008. 
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Beckman, John (April 28, 2004). _New York University Kick Off $2.5 Billion Fundraising Campaign_. NYU Office Public Affairs. Retrieved  September 4, 2007. 
  46. **^** "The Campaign for NYU". NYU Office for University Development & Alumni Relations. Archived from the original on August 22, 2007. Retrieved  September 4, 2007. 
  47. **^** _NYU Alumni Constance & Martin Silver Donate $50 Million to University's School of Social Work_. NYU Office Public Affairs. October 15, 2007. Retrieved October 17, 2007. 
  48. **^** Jaschik, Scott (October 17, 2007). _Quick Takes_. Inside Higher Ed. Retrieved  October 17, 2007. 
  49. **^** Souccar, Miriam (2008). "Local universities report banner fundraising years". Retrieved August 2, 2008. 
  50. **^** Platt, Eric (2008). "Over seven years, NYU rakes in $3 billion". Archived from the original on January 13, 2009. Retrieved September 9, 2008. 
  51. **^** Portlock, Sarah (April 24, 2007). "NYU unveils 25-year plan". _Washington Square News_. Archived from the original on August 22, 2007. Retrieved  September 4, 2007. 
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NYU, Ivy Leagues Top Schools for Green Power". GreenBiz.com. April 19, 2007. Retrieved  September 12, 2007. 
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NYU buys more wind power credit". Washington Square News. November 15, 2007. Archived from the original on December 1, 2008. Retrieved  July 22, 2008. 
  54. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NYU to Purchase Wind-Generated Power As Part of New Sustainability Initiative". NYU Office of Public Affairs. October 5, 2006. Retrieved  September 12, 2007. 
  55. **^** "COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES RAISE $33.80 BILLION IN 2013" (PDF). _Cae.org_. Retrieved  2016-08-18. 
  56. **^** "COLLEGES AND UNIVERSITIES RAISE $37.45 BILLION IN 2014" (PDF). _Cae.org_. Retrieved  2016-08-18. 
  57. **^** Melissa Korn (April 16, 2015). "For U.S. Universities, the Rich Get Richer Faster". _WSJ_.  
  58. **^** "NYU Columbia Make A Mint on Real Estate". _observer.com_. Observer Media. Retrieved  October 23, 2016. 
  59. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Campus Map". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  60. **^** "New York Campus". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  61. **^** "NYU's Global Network". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  62. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "On Campus Living". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  63. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Top Ten Residence Hall Systems". University of Michigan Housing. Archived from the original on March 5, 2007. Retrieved  July 16, 2007. 
  64. **^** "Commencement ceremony". NYU. Retrieved  April 17, 2010. 
  65. **^** "Speech at New York University". GlobalSecurity.org. April 20, 2004. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  66. **^** "Former Vice President Al Gore Remarks to MoveOn.org". MoveOn.org. August 7, 2003. Archived from the original on July 15, 2007. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  67. **^** "The Skirball Center for the Performing Arts". NYU Office for University Development and Alumni Relations. Archived from the original on February 20, 2002. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  68. **^** "Helen and Martin Kimmel Center for University Life, NYU". Kevin Roche John Dinkeloo and Associates LLC – Architects. Archived from the original on February 22, 2005. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  69. **^** "About the NYU Libraries". NYU Libraries. June 2007. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  70. **^** "The Avery Fisher Center for Music and Media". _New York University Libraries_. New York University. Archived from the original on November 2, 2013. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  71. **^** "Digital Studio". _New York University Libraries_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  72. **^** "Special Collections and Archives". _New York University Libraries_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  73. **^** Amateau, Albert (January 14–20, 2004). "N.Y.U. opens new building for law school". _The Villager_. **73** (37). Retrieved  October 11, 2007. 
  74. **^** Anderson, Lincoln (November 17–22, 2004). "N.Y.U. to use Waverly buildings for its new life sciences center". _The Villager_. **74** (28). Retrieved  October 11, 2007. 
  75. **^** Skalka, Liz (November 8, 2005). "New dorm coming in 2009: 26-story residence hall to be built on 12th Street". _Washington Square News_. Retrieved  October 11, 2007. 
  76. **^** NYU Web Communications. "Route A". _nyu.edu_.  
  77. **^** NYU Web Communications. "Passenger Information". _nyu.edu_.  
  78. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Top 50 Game Design Schools and Colleges in the US – 2015". _animationcareerreview.com_.  
  79. **^** "MAGNET - NYU Media and Games Network". _nyu.edu_.  
  80. **^** Frost, Mary (October 29, 2014). "NYU Langone to take over LICH emergency department in Brooklyn on Friday". _Brooklyn Daily Eagle_. Retrieved  April 4, 2016. 
  81. **^** "NYU's $500M Downtown Brooklyn expansion will open this summer". _Curbed NY_. Retrieved  2017-11-14. 
  82. **^** "Contact Us". _NYU School of Medicine_. NYU Langone Medical Center. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  83. **^** "About Us". _Hospital for Joint Diseases_. NYU Langone Medical Center. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  84. **^** "Bellevue Hospital Center". _NYU Langone Medical Center_. NYU Langone Medical Center. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  85. **^** "Contact". _NYU Silver School of Social Work_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  86. **^** "Nelson Institute of Environmental Medicine". _Pulmonary, Critical Care, & Sleep Medicine – Department of Medicine_. NYU Langone Medical Center. Retrieved October 31, 2013. 
  87. **^** "Visit Us". _NYU School of Professional Studies_. New York University School of Professional Studies. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  88. **^** "Institute for the Study of the Ancient World". _Institute for the Study of the Ancient World_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  89. **^** "Contact the Institute". _NYU Institute of Fine Arts_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  90. **^** "Research Centers, Institutes, and International Houses". _NYU Arts & Science_. New York University, Arts and Science. Retrieved October 31, 2013. 
  91. **^** "NYU's Tisch School Of The Arts opens its first campus in Singapore". Archived from the original on February 23, 2012. Retrieved  August 22, 2008. 
  92. **^** "Tisch Asia in a flux following president's removal". Retrieved  November 9, 2012. 
  93. **^** "Ex-Tisch Asia president takes NYU to court". Retrieved  November 9, 2012. 
  94. **^** " 'The Future Of Tisch Asia _(Memo from Office of the Dean to Tisch Asia Community)"_. Retrieved  November 9, 2012. 
  95. **^** Eustachewich, Lia (September 20, 2016). "NYU students claim defunct Tisch Asia was a rip-off in suit". _Nypost.com_. Retrieved  2016-09-24. 
  96. **^** "Ex-students call NYU's Singapore art school an 'educational scam '". _Nydailynews.com_. Retrieved  2016-09-24. 
  97. **^** "NYU Opens Academic Center In Washington, DC". NYU. 2012. Retrieved  October 12, 2012. 
  98. **^** "Global Academic Centers". New York University. Retrieved  February 14, 2012. 
  99. **^** "NYU marks years of successful restoration at La Pietra". _NYU Today_. **16** (1). September 5, 2002. Retrieved  July 16, 2007. 
  100. **^** "NYU Abu Dhabi University & College in UAE, New York University". New York University Abu Dhabi. Retrieved  February 14, 2012. 
  101. **^** Foderaro, Lisa W. (June 20, 2010). "N.Y.U. Abu Dhabi Scours Globe for Its First Students". _New York Times_. Retrieved  February 14, 2012. 
  102. **^** Timm, Jane (September 13, 2010). "NYU Abu Dhabi: the story from concept to classroom". nyunews.com. Archived from the original on September 17, 2010. Retrieved November 22, 2010. 
  103. **^** "China's Education Ministry Approves NYU Portal Campus in Shanghai". NYU Local. January 21, 2011. Retrieved  April 21, 2011. 
  104. **^** Hennock, Mary, "New Leader of NYU Shanghai Has Built Other Bridges to China", _Chronicle of Higher Education_ , April 29, 2012. Retrieved April 30, 2012.
  105. **^** "À Paris, la New York University déménage et lance une clinique du droit – Educpros". Letudiant.fr. October 28, 2013. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  106. **^** Turley, Meredith (July 1, 2006). _New York University: Off the Record_. College Prowler. p. 161\. ISBN 978-1-4274-0102-1.  
  107. **^** "Routes and Schedules". _Department of Public Safety_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  108. **^** "Living at NYU". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  109. **^** "Explore the Residence Halls". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  110. **^** "Mission Statement". _Inter-Residence Hall Council_. Inter-Residence Hall Council. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  111. **^** "Awards". _Inter-Residence Hall Council_. Inter-Residence Hall Council. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  112. **^** "NYU Sustainability Fast Facts". New York University. Retrieved  June 8, 2009. 
  113. **^** "At New York University, green is the new violet". _The Villager_. Retrieved  June 8, 2009. 
  114. **^** "College Sustainability Report Card 2010". Sustainable Endowments Institute.  
  115. **^** "About CAS". _NYU College of Arts & Science_. New York University, Arts and Science. Retrieved August 30, 2013. 
  116. **^** "$100 million gift from Chandrika and Ranjan Tandon for engineering at NYU". _NYU_. New York University. Retrieved  October 5, 2015. 
  117. **^** "NSF – NCSES Academic Institution Profiles – Rankings by total R&D expenditures". _Ncsesdata.nsf.gov_. Retrieved  2016-02-17. 
  118. **^** "Top 100 Worldwide Universities Granted U.S. Utility Patents" (PDF). _Academyofinvestors.org_. 2014. Retrieved  2016-10-24. 
  119. **^** "NYU Acquires Fastest Supercomputer in New York City". _Nyu.edu_. Retrieved  2016-10-18. 
  120. **^** "Cybersecurity Team Makes NYU Tandon a Crucible for Microchip Security | NYU Tandon School of Engineering". _Engineering.nyu.edu_. Retrieved  2016-10-18. 
  121. **^** http://www.nyu.edu/employees/resources-and-services/administrative-services/institutional-research/factbook.html
  122. **^** "NYU's Acceptance Rate Drops to Lowest in 16 Years". Retrieved  April 15, 2017. 
  123. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NYU Stern | Class Profile". _Stern.nyu.edu_. Retrieved  2016-09-27. 
  124. **^** "New York University | Best Engineering School | US News". _Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  2016-09-27. 
  125. **^** "Graduate School of Arts and Science New York University". _petersons.com_. Retrieved  2016-10-02. 
  126. **^** "NYU Law School | Law School Numbers". _Nyu.lawschoolnumbers.com_. Retrieved  2016-09-27. 
  127. **^** "NYU Facts". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  March 26, 2016. 
  128. **^** "Student Composition | Education and Training". _Med.nyu.edu_. Retrieved  2016-09-27. 
  129. **^** "Finance and Risk Engineering | NYU Tandon School of Engineering". _Engineering.nyu.edu_. 2009-05-18. Retrieved  2016-09-27. 
  130. **^** "NYU Law School | Law School Numbers". Nyu.lawschoolnumbers.com. Retrieved  2016-09-27. 
  131. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  132. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  133. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  134. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  135. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  136. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  137. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  138. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  139. **^** "NYU Overall Rankings - US News Best Colleges". _Colleges.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  2016-09-24. 
  140. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "CWUR 2015; Top 1000 Universities". Cwur.org. Retrieved  October 1, 2015. 
  141. **^** "Top Colleges | The Global Language Monitor". Languagemonitor.com. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  142. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2015/16".  
  143. **^** Melissa Stanger and Melia Robinson (November 4, 2013). "Best Colleges In America". _Business Insider_. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  144. **^** "Top Universities in the World | 2014 World University Web Rankings". 4icu.org. July 28, 2014. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  145. **^** "New York University". _Times Higher Education_.  
  146. **^** "Best Applied Mathematics Programs - Top Math Schools - US News Best Graduate Schools". _rankingsandreviews.com_. Archived from the original on November 1, 2013.  
  147. **^** "Best Graduate Schools". U.S. News & World Report LP. Archived from the original on April 24, 2009. Retrieved  April 21, 2014. 
  148. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities in Social Science - 2015". _Academic Ranking of World Universities_. Retrieved  October 1, 2015. 
  149. **^** "Top 100 universities for social sciences 2015". Times Higher Education. Retrieved  October 1, 2015. 
  150. **^** "QS World University Rankings by Faculty 2015 – Social Sciences and Management". Top Universities. August 28, 2015. Retrieved  October 1, 2015. 
  151. **^** "New York University (NYU) Rankings". Top Universities. Retrieved  October 1, 2015. 
  152. **^** "Ranking of U.S. Psychology Ph.D. Programs by Area". Socialpsychology.org. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  153. **^** "New York University | Best Social Sciences & Humanities School | US News". Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  154. **^** "New York University | Best Law School | US News". Grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  155. **^** "The Philosophical Gourmet". Blackwell Publishing Philosophy. 2011.  
  156. **^** "QS World University Rankings by Subject 2015 – Philosophy". Top Universities. September 15, 2015. Retrieved  October 1, 2015. 
  157. **^** Iyer, Ravi (April 28, 2013). "Ranker Uses Big Data to Rank the World's 25 Best Film Schools | Opinion Graph Data Blog by Ranker". Data.ranker.com. Retrieved August 14, 2014. 
  158. **^** DiAngelea Millar (June 1, 2013). "NYU rated No.1 in new film school rankings – Los Angeles Times". Articles.latimes.com. Retrieved August 14, 2014. 
  159. **^** "Unigo: Top 10 New Ivies 2013". Huffingtonpost.com. August 30, 2012. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  160. **^** "America's 25 New Elite 'Ivies '". Newsweek. 2006-08-21. Archived from the original on July 8, 2007. Retrieved 2007-07-16. 
  161. **^** "Education – Image". NYTimes.com. October 28, 2013. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  162. **^** "Emerging Employability University Ranking". Emerging.fr. January 1, 1980. Retrieved  August 14, 2014. 
  163. **^** Satish K. "Prime Colleges: New York University". _Primecolleges.blogspot.in_. Retrieved  2016-08-18. 
  164. **^** "The Princeton Review's 2016 "College Hopes & Worries Survey" Reports on 10,000 Students' & Parents' Application Perspectives & "Dream" Colleges". _The Princeton Review_. 2016.  
  165. **^** "Top 100 Worldwide Universities Granted U.S. Utility Patents" (PDF). _Academyofinvestors.org_. 2014. Retrieved  2016-08-18. 
  166. **^** "World's top 100 universities for producing millionaires". _Times Higher Education_.  
  167. **^** ABC News. "Top 15 Universities With the Most Wealthy Alumni - ABC News". _ABC News_.  
  168. **^** "Billionaire U: Why Harvard Mints Mega-Rich Alums". _CNBC News_.  
  169. **^** Leonard, Barbara (November 4, 2005). "Coca-Cola given ultimatum". _Washington Square News_. Archived from the original on January 13, 2009. Retrieved  October 12, 2007. 
  170. **^** Woyke, Elizabeth (January 23, 2006). "How NYU Chose Colombia over Coke". _Business Week_. Archived from the original on August 8, 2007. Retrieved  October 12, 2007. 
  171. **^** Smallwood, Scott (March 16, 2001). "A Big Breakthrough for T.A. Unions". _The Chronicle of Higher Education_. Archived from the original on April 24, 2008. Retrieved  October 12, 2007. 
  172. **^** Coe III, Richard M. (December 6, 2005). "NYU graduate assistants pledge to continue strike". _Daily Tar Heel_. Archived from the original on February 10, 2009. Retrieved  October 12, 2007. 
  173. **^** Hernandez, Sergio (February 5, 2009). _Coke ban lifted_. Washington Square News. Archived from the original on February 7, 2009. Retrieved  February 8, 2009. 
  174. **^** "New York University:Housing & Campus Life". College Board. 2007. Retrieved  October 10, 2007. 
  175. **^** "Clubs and Organizations". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  176. **^** "Club Directory". _Center for Student Activities, Leadership & Service_. New York University. Retrieved October 31, 2013. 
  177. **^** NYU Web Communications. "NYU Crowned National Mock Trial Champion". _nyu.edu_.  
  178. **^** "UCLA Mock Trial team takes first at American Mock Trial Association 27th National Championship Tournament". _dailybruin.com_.  
  179. **^** "AMERICAN MOCK TRIAL ASSOCIATION : 2015-2016 TEAM POWER RANKINGS" (PDF). _Collegemocktrial.org_. Retrieved  2016-08-18. 
  180. **^** "Guide to the Andiron Club of New York City". New York University Archives. Retrieved  July 17, 2007. 
  181. **^** "A Window Into the Past: NYU in Retrospect". New York University Archives. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  182. **^** "175 Facts About NYU". New York University Archives. Retrieved  July 15, 2007. 
  183. **^** Friss, Evan (September 13, 2004). "Chronicles: A Look at NYU's Past". _NYU Today_. **18** (1). Retrieved  July 17, 2007. 
  184. **^** "Welcome Week". _New York University_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  185. **^** "New York University". _In Like Me_. InlikeMe and Phrazorp LLC. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  186. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "New York University - Archivist's Angle: The Medley". _Alumni.nyu.edu_. Retrieved  2016-02-17. 
  187. **^** "History of The Plague". _Ny.edu_. Retrieved  2016-09-24. 
  188. **^** "Memories of The Plague". _Dan Fiorella: Writer @ large_.  
  189. **^** "The Plague". _Ny.edu_. Retrieved  2016-09-24. 
  190. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Psi Upsilon History". Psi Upsilon Fraternity. 2006. Archived from the original on April 14, 2007. Retrieved  July 17, 2007. 
  191. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sunshine, Jared (2007). "History". Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America, Inc. Archived from the original on July 29, 2007. Retrieved July 17, 2007. 
  192. **^** "New York University: Campus Life". _US News & World Report_. 2014. Retrieved March 20, 2014. 
  193. **^** "Who We Are". _Inter-Greek Council_. New York University Inter-Greek Council. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  194. **^** "Our History". Tau Delta Phi Fraternity, Inc. 2007. Archived from the original on September 20, 2008. Retrieved  October 20, 2008. 
  195. **^** "History". International Business Fraternity of Delta Sigma Pi. 2008. Archived from the original on March 19, 2008. Retrieved  April 25, 2008. 
  196. **^** "History – Alpha Epsilon Pi". Kintera, Inc. Archived from the original on May 23, 2007. Retrieved  July 17, 2007. 
  197. **^** "History and Traditions". Delta Phi Epsilon International Sorority. Archived from the original on June 28, 2007. Retrieved  July 17, 2007. 
  198. **^** "About". _Delta Phi Gamma Chapter_. NYU Delta Phi Gamma Chapter. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  199. **^** "Rush FAQ'S". _Zeta Beta Tau Gamma Chapter_. NYU Zeta Beta Tau Gamma Chapter. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  200. **^** NYU Web Communications. "Frequently Asked Questions". _nyu.edu_.  
  201. **^** "History of the Bobcat". New York University. Archived from the original on June 12, 2007. Retrieved  December 29, 2010. 
  202. **^** "NYU Athletics". New York University. Retrieved  April 22, 2011. 
  203. **^** "The Organization". National Intercollegiate Women's Fencing Association. Retrieved  July 17, 2007. 
  204. **^** Kleeman, Sophie (April 19, 2012). "We Are The Champions, Sometimes: The Highs And Lows Of NYU Athletics". _NYU Local_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  205. **^** "NYU Athletics". _NYU Athletics_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  206. **^** "Facilities". _NYU Athletics_. New York University. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  207. **^** "New York University - NYU Alumni Home". _imodules.com_.  
  208. **^** "Inspired by teflon, researchers create super durable proteins". _Phys.org_. 2011-07-04. Retrieved  2016-12-12. 
  209. **^** "Patents by Inventor Richard J. Orford". _Patents.justia.com_. Retrieved  2016-12-08. 
  210. **^** "The Graduate School at Polytechnic Institute of New York University" (PDF). _Engineering.nyu.edu_. Retrieved  2016-12-08. 
  211. **^** "Invention, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Begin at the NYU Polytechnic School of Engineering by Spark451". _Issuu.com_. 2014-04-21. Retrieved  2016-12-08. 
  212. **^** "Straight Out of Star Trek". _Nyu.edu_. Retrieved  2016-09-24. 
  213. **^** "BROOKLYN'S POLYTECH, A STORYBOOK SUCCESS". _The New York Times_. 5 January 1986. Retrieved  19 October 2016. 
  214. **^** "Invention, Innovation and Entrepreneurship Begin at the NYU Polytechnic School of Engineering". _issuu_. 5 January 2013. Retrieved  22 October 2016. 
  215. **^** "Leopold H. Just, 95, Is Dead - Designer of New York Bridges". NYTimes.com. 1999-03-07. Retrieved  2016-10-15. 
  216. **^** "Eugene Kleiner, Early Promoter Of Silicon Valley, Is Dead at 80". Associated Press. November 26, 2003 – via The New York Times.  
  217. **^** "List of Public Companies Worldwide, Letter - Businessweek - Businessweek". _Bloomberg.com_. Retrieved  2016-02-17. 

## Further reading

  * Dim, Joan (2000). _The Miracle on Washington Square_. Lanham, MD: Lexington Books.  
  * Frusciano, Thomas & Pettit, Marilyn (1997). _New York University and the City: An Illustrated History_. New Brunswick, NJ: Rutgers University Press.  
  * Gitlow, Abrahm L. (1995). _NYU's Stern School of Business: A Centennial Retrospective_. New York: NYU Press.  
  * Harris, Luther S. (2003). _Around Washington Square  : An Illustrated History of Greenwich Village_. Baltimore, MD: Johns Hopkins University Press. 
  * Hester, James M. (1971). _New York University; the urban university coming of age_. New York: Newcomen Society in North America. OCLC 140405.  
  * Jones, Theodore F. (1933). _New York University, 1832–1932_. London: H. Milford, Oxford University Press.  
  * Lewis, Naphtali (1968). _Greek papyri in the collection of New York University_. Leiden: E.J. Brill.  
  * Tonne, Herbert A., ed. (1981). _Early Leaders in Business Education at New York University_. Reston, Virginia: National Business Education Association.  
  * Potash, David M. (1991). _The Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at New York University: A History_. New York: NYU Arts and Sciences Publications.  

## External links

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**New York University**_.  
---|---  
| Wikisource has the text of The New Student's Reference Work article about
_**New York University**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * NYU Athletics website
  * "New York University collected news and commentary". _The New York Times_.  
  *  "New York University". _Collier's New Encyclopedia_. 1921.  
  *  "New York University". _New International Encyclopedia_. 1905.  

  * v
  * t
  * e

New York University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * Archives
  * Brennan Center for Justice
  * Center for Cosmology and Particle Physics
  * Center on the Administration of Criminal Law
  * Frederic Ewen Academic Freedom Center
  * Furman Center for Real Estate and Urban Policy
  * GNAT
  * New York Institute for the Humanities
  * _New York University Journal of International Law and Politics_
  * _New York University Law Review_
  * New York University Press
  * _NYU Annual Survey of American Law_
  * NYU Catherine B. Reynolds Program for Social Entrepreneurship
  * Root-Tilden Scholarship
  * Rudin Center for Transportation Policy & Management
  * Rusk Institute of Rehabilitation Medicine
  * _Washington Square Review_

  
  
Athletics |

  * NYU Violets
    * Men's basketball
  * Coles Sports and Recreation Center
  * Deans' Cup
  * Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Campus |

  * 370 Jay Street
  * Brown Building
  * Casa Italiana Zerilli Marimò
  * Elmer Holmes Bobst Library
  * Fales Library
  * James B. Duke House
  * La Maison Française
  * Langone Medical Center
  * Puck Building
  * Residence halls
  * Silver Center
  * Skirball Center for the Performing Arts
  * Tamiment Library and Robert F. Wagner Archives
  * Union Square
  * University Village
  * Washington Mews
  * Washington Square Park
  * Washington Square Village
  * Wunsch Building
  * NYU Paris
  * NYU London
  * NYU Florence

  
  
Culture |

  * NYU in popular culture

  
  
People |

  * List of New York University alumni
  * List of New York University faculty
  * List of New York University honorary degree recipients
  * List of Presidents of New York University
  * List of New York University staff

  
  
Schools |

| Undergraduate |

  * College of Arts and Science
  * Liberal Studies
  * Nursing
  * Individualized Study
  * Engineering
  * Social Work
  * Public Service
  * Mathematical Sciences
  * Culture, Education, and Human Development
  * Business
  * Arts
  * NYU Abu Dhabi
  * NYU Shanghai

  
  
---|---  
Graduate |

  * Dentistry
  * Mathematical Sciences
  * Arts and Science
  * Ancient World
  * Fine Arts
  * Engineering
  * Public Service
  * Professional Studies
  * Law
  * Medicine
  * Social Work

  
  
Library |

  * New York University Libraries
  * Elmer Holmes Bobst Library
  * Fales Library

  
  
Life |

  * Eucleian Society
  * Graduate Student Organizing Committee
  * History of NYU
  * _NYU Local_
  * Philomathean Society
  * _The Plague_
  * Red Dragon Society
  * Student life
  * Student Senators Council
  * _Washington Square News_
  * WNYU-FM

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in New York City  
  
---  
Comprehensive |

  * Columbia
  * CUNY
  * Fordham
  * LIU
  * The New School
  * NYU
  * Pace
  * St. John's
  * Touro
  * Yeshiva

  
  
Liberal arts  
colleges |

  * Barnard
  * Boricua
  * SUNY Empire State
  * King's
  * Manhattan College
  * Marymount Manhattan
  * Mercy
  * Mount Saint Vincent
  * Nyack
  * St. Francis
  * St. Joseph's
  * Wagner

  
  
Arts and  
engineering |

  * AADA
  * AMDA
  * Bard
  * Christie's
  * Cooper Union
  * Cornell Tech
  * FIT
  * Juilliard
  * LIM
  * Manhattan School of Music
  * NYAA
  * NYFA
  * NYIT
  * NYSS
  * Pratt
  * SUNY Maritime
  * SVA
  * Vaughn

  
  
Health and law |

  * Brooklyn Law
  * Einstein
  * Mount Sinai
  * NYLS
  * NYMC
  * Pacific
  * Phillips Beth Israel
  * Podiatric
  * Rockefeller
  * SUNY Downstate
  * SUNY Optometry
  * Weill Cornell
  * Cornell Grad School of Medicine

  
  
Theological |

  * ATS
  * GTS
  * Hebrew Union
  * JTS
  * NYTS
  * UTS

  
  
Vocational |

  * Bramson ORT
  * Briarcliffe
  * DeVry
  * Metropolitan
  * Monroe

  
  
Other |

  * Bank Street
  * Berkeley
  * NYIF
  * Teachers

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

University Athletic Association  
  
---  
  
  * Brandeis **Judges**
  * Carnegie Mellon **Tartans**
  * Case Western Reserve **Spartans**
  * Chicago **Maroons**
  * Emory **Eagles**
  * NYU **Violets**
  * Rochester **Yellowjackets**
  * Washington University **Bears**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association  
  
---  
Current members |

  * Charleston Golden Eagles
  * George Mason Patriots
  * Harvard Crimson
  * NJIT Highlanders
  * Penn State Nittany Lions
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Sacred Heart Pioneers
  * Saint Francis Red Flash

  
  
Former members |

  * Concordia College
  * East Stroudsburg University
  * Juniata College
  * New York University
  * University of New Haven
  * Queens College
  * Rutgers–Newark
  * Springfield College
  * Vassar College
  * SUNY New Paltz

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 139712320
  * LCCN: n79058487
  * ISNI: 0000 0004 1936 8753
  * GND: 1713-9
  * SUDOC: 028038231
  * BNF: cb119954121 (data)
  * NLA: 35383350
  * BNE: XX138969
  * IATH: w6k96xpm

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=New_York_University&oldid=816525526"

Categories:

  * New York University
  * Universities and colleges in Manhattan
  * Greenwich Village
  * Private universities and colleges in New York (state)
  * 1831 establishments in New York (state)
  * Educational institutions established in 1831
  * Kohn Pedersen Fox buildings

Hidden categories:

  * Wikipedia indefinitely semi-protected pages
  * Use mdy dates from November 2015
  * Good articles
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Articles containing Latin-language text
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from Collier's Encyclopedia
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * View source
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Кыргызча
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Malti
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Occitan
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 December 2017, at 22:15.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

