

# _Newsweek_

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

_Newsweek_  
---  
Editor-in-chief |  Bob Roe  
Categories | Magazine  
Frequency | Weekly  
Publisher | Dev Pragad  
Total circulation  
(December 2012) | 1,528,081[1]  
First issue | February 17, 1933; 84 years ago (1933-02-17)  
Company |

  * The Washington Post Company (1961–2010)
  * The Newsweek Daily Beast Company / IAC (2010–13)
  * IBT Media (2013–present)

  
  
Country | United States  
Based in | New York City, New York, U.S.  
Language | English  
Website | newsweek.com  
ISSN | 0028-9604  
  
_**Newsweek**_ is an American weekly magazine founded in 1933.

Between 2008 and 2012, _Newsweek_ underwent internal and external contractions
designed to shift the magazine's focus and audience while improving its
finances. Instead, losses accelerated: revenue dropped 38 percent from 2007 to
2009. The revenue declines prompted an August 2010 sale by owner The
Washington Post Company to audio pioneer Sidney Harman—for a purchase price of
one dollar and an assumption of the magazine's liabilities.[2][3]

In November 2010, _Newsweek_ merged with the news and opinion website _The
Daily Beast_ , forming The Newsweek Daily Beast Company, after negotiations
between the owners of the two publications. Tina Brown, _The Daily Beast_ 's
editor-in-chief, served as the editor of both publications. _Newsweek_ was
jointly owned by the estate of the late Harman and the diversified American
media and Internet company IAC.[4][5]

_Newsweek_ ceased print publication with the December 31, 2012, issue and
transitioned to an all-digital format, called _Newsweek Global_.[6][7][8]

On August 3, 2013, IBT Media announced it had acquired _Newsweek_ from IAC on
terms that were not disclosed; the acquisition included the _Newsweek_ brand
and its online publication, but did not include _The Daily Beast_.[9] IBT
Media relaunched a print edition of _Newsweek_ on March 7, 2014.[10][11]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Founding and early years (1933–1961)
    * 1.2 Under _Post_ ownership (1961–2010)
      * 1.2.1 Restructuring and new owner (2008–2010)
    * 1.3 Merger with _The Daily Beast_ (2010)
    * 1.4 Redesign (2011)
    * 1.5 Cessation of print format (2013)
    * 1.6 Spin-off to IBT Media, return to print and profitability (2013–present)
  * 2 Circulation and branches
  * 3 Highlights and controversies
    * 3.1 Allegations of sexism
    * 3.2 Other
  * 4 Contributors and staff members
  * 5 See also
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## History[edit]

Cover of the first issue of _News-Week_ magazine

###  Founding and early years (1933–1961)[edit]

_News-Week_ was launched in 1933 by Thomas J.C. Martyn, a former foreign-news
editor for _Time_. He obtained financial backing from a group of U.S.
stockholders "which included Ward Cheney, of the Cheney silk family, John Hay
Whitney, and Paul Mellon, son of Andrew W. Mellon". Paul Mellon's ownership in
_Newsweek_ apparently represented "the first attempt of the Mellon family to
function journalistically on a national scale."[12] The group of original
owners invested around $2.5 million. Other large stockholders prior to 1946
were public utilities investment banker Stanley Childs and Wall Street
corporate lawyer Wilton Lloyd-Smith.

Journalist Samuel T. Williamson served as the first editor-in-chief of
_Newsweek_. The first issue of the magazine was dated 17 February 1933. Seven
photographs from the week's news were printed on the first issue's cover.[13]

January 16, 1939, cover featuring Felix Frankfurter

In 1937 _News-Week_ merged with the weekly journal _Today_ , which had been
founded in 1932 by future New York Governor and diplomat W. Averell Harriman,
and Vincent Astor of the prominent Astor family. As a result of the deal,
Harriman and Astor provided $600,000 in venture capital funds and Vincent
Astor became both the chairman of the board and its principal stockholder
between 1937 and his death in 1959.[ _citation needed_ ]

In 1937 Malcolm Muir took over as president and editor-in-chief. He changed
the name to _Newsweek_ , emphasized interpretive stories, introduced signed
columns, and launched international editions. Over time the magazine developed
a broad spectrum of material, from breaking stories and analysis to reviews
and commentary.[ _citation needed_ ]

### Under _Post_ ownership (1961–2010) [edit]

The magazine was purchased by The Washington Post Company in 1961.[14]

Osborn Elliott was named editor of _Newsweek_ in 1961 and became the editor in
chief in 1969.

In 1970, Eleanor Holmes Norton represented sixty female employees of
_Newsweek_ who had filed a claim with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission that _Newsweek_ had a policy of only allowing men to be
reporters.[15] The women won, and _Newsweek_ agreed to allow women to be
reporters.[15] The day the claim was filed, _Newsweek'_ s cover article was
"Women in Revolt", covering the feminist movement; the article was written by
a woman who had been hired on a freelance basis since there were no female
reporters at the magazine.[16]

Edward Kosner became editor from 1975 to 1979 after directing the magazine’s
extensive coverage of the Watergate scandal that led to the resignation of
President Richard Nixon in 1974.

Richard M. Smith became chairman in 1998, the year that the magazine
inaugurated its "Best High Schools in America" list,[17] a ranking of public
secondary schools based on the Challenge Index, which measures the ratio of
Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate exams taken by students to
the number of graduating students that year, regardless of the scores earned
by students or the difficulty in graduating. Schools with average SAT scores
above 1300 or average ACT scores above 27 are excluded from the list; these
are categorized instead as "Public Elite" High Schools. In 2008, there were 17
Public Elites.[18]

Smith resigned as board chairman in December 2007.[19]

#### Restructuring and new owner (2008–2010)[edit]

The first issue released after the magazine switched to an opinion and
commentary format.

During 2008–2009, _Newsweek_ undertook a dramatic business
restructuring.[20][21] Citing difficulties in competing with online news
sources to provide unique news in a weekly publication, the magazine refocused
its content on opinion and commentary beginning with its May 24, 2009, issue.
It shrank its subscriber rate base, from 3.1 million to 2.6 million in early
2008, to 1.9 million in July 2009 and then to 1.5 million in January 2010—a
decline of 50% in one year. Meacham described his strategy as
"counterintuitive" as it involved discouraging renewals and nearly doubling
subscription prices as it sought a more affluent subscriber base for its
advertisers.[22] During this period, the magazine also laid off staff. While
advertising revenues were down almost 50% compared to the prior year, expenses
were also diminished, whereby the publishers hoped _Newsweek_ would return to
profitability.[23]

The financial results for 2009 as reported by The Washington Post Company
showed that advertising revenue for _Newsweek_ was down 37% in 2009 and the
magazine division reported an operating loss for 2009 of $29.3 million
compared to a loss of $16 million in 2008.[24] During the first quarter of
2010, the magazine lost nearly $11 million.[25]

By May 2010, _Newsweek_ had been losing money for the past two years and was
put up for sale.[26] The sale attracted international bidders. One bidder was
Syrian entrepreneur Abdulsalam Haykal, CEO of Syrian publishing company Haykal
Media, who brought together a coalition of Middle Eastern investors with his
company. Haykal later claimed his bid was ignored by _Newsweek_ 's bankers,
Allen & Co.[27]

The magazine was sold to audio pioneer Sidney Harman on August 2, 2010, for $1
in exchange for assuming the magazine's financial liabilities.[3][28] Harman's
bid was accepted over three competitors.[29] Meacham left the magazine upon
completion of the sale. Sidney Harman was the husband of Jane Harman, at that
time a member of Congress from California.

### Merger with _The Daily Beast_ (2010) [edit]

Main article: The Newsweek Daily Beast Company

At the end of 2010, _Newsweek_ merged with the online publication _The Daily
Beast_ , following extensive negotiations between the respective proprietors.
Tina Brown, _The Daily Beast_ 's editor-in-chief, became editor of both
publications. The new entity, The Newsweek Daily Beast Company, was 50% owned
by IAC/InterActiveCorp and 50% by Harman.[4][5][30]

The goal of The Newsweek Daily Beast Company was to have _The Daily Beast_ be
a source of instant analysis of the news, while _Newsweek_ would serve to take
a look at the bigger picture, provide deeper analysis, and "connect the dots,"
in the words of Harman, and for both publications to ultimately be profitable.
[ _citation needed_ ]

During her tenure as editor-in-chief of _Newsweek_ , Brown has taken the news
weekly in a different direction from her predecessor. Whereas Jon Meacham
looked to make the focus solely on politics and world affairs, Brown brought
the focus back onto all of current events, not just politics, business, and
world affairs (although these issues are still the focus of the magazine).
This was evidenced by an increased attention to fashion and pop culture as
seen in many of her covers since taking the job.[ _citation needed_ ]

### Redesign (2011)[edit]

_Newsweek_ was redesigned in March 2011.[31] The new _Newsweek_ moved the
"Perspectives" section to the front of the magazine, where it served
essentially as a highlight reel of the past week on _The Daily Beast_. More
room was made available in the front of the magazine for columnists, editors,
and special guests. A new "News Gallery" section featured two-page spreads of
photographs from the week with a brief article accompanying each one. The
"NewsBeast" section featured short articles, a brief interview with a
newsmaker, and several graphs and charts for quick reading in the style of
_The Daily Beast_. This is where the _Newsweek_ staple "Conventional Wisdom"
was located. Brown retained _Newsweek_ 's focus on in-depth, analytical
features and original reporting on politics and world affairs, as well as a
new focus on longer fashion and pop culture features. A larger culture section
named "Omnivore" featured art, music, books, film, theater, food, travel, and
television, including a weekly "Books" and "Want" section. The back page was
reserved for a "My Favorite Mistake" column written by celebrity guest
columnists about a mistake they made that defines who they are.[31]

### Cessation of print format (2013)[edit]

The cover of _Newsweek_ 's final print issue under The Newsweek Daily Beast
Company ownership

On July 25, 2012, the company operating _Newsweek_ indicated the publication
was likely to go digital to cover its losses and could undergo other changes
by the next year. Barry Diller, chairman of the conglomerate
IAC/InterActiveCorp, said his firm was looking at options since its partner in
the Newsweek/Daily Beast operation had pulled out.[32]

On October 18, 2012, the company announced that the American print edition
would be discontinued at the end of 2012 after 80 years of publication, citing
the increasing difficulty of maintaining a paper weekly magazine in the face
of declining advertising and subscription revenues and increasing costs for
print production and distribution.[6] The online edition is named " _Newsweek
Global_ ".[8]

### Spin-off to IBT Media, return to print and profitability
(2013–present)[edit]

In April 2013, IAC chairman and founder Barry Diller stated at the Milken
Global Conference that he "wished he hadn't bought" _Newsweek_ because his
company had lost money on the magazine and called the purchase a "mistake" and
a "fool's errand".[33]

On August 3, 2013, IBT Media acquired _Newsweek_ from IAC on terms that were
not disclosed; the acquisition included the _Newsweek_ brand and its online
publication, but did not include _The Daily Beast_.[9]

On March 7, 2014, IBT Media relaunched a print edition of _Newsweek_[10] with
a cover story on the alleged creator of Bitcoin, which was widely criticized
for its lack of substantive evidence.[11]

IBT Media returned the publication to profitability on October 8, 2014.[34]

In January 2015, the Serbian edition of the magazine, _Newsweek Serbia_ , was
to be relaunched under license to Adria Media Group.[35]

In February 2017, IBT Media appointed Matt McAllester, then Editor of Newsweek
International, as Global Editor-in-chief of Newsweek.[36]

## Circulation and branches[edit]

In 2003, worldwide circulation was more than 4 million, including 2.7 million
in the U.S; by 2010 it reduced to 1.5 million (with newsstand sales declining
to just over 40,000 copies per week). _Newsweek_ publishes editions in
Japanese, Korean, Polish, Spanish, Rioplatense Spanish, Arabic, Turkish,
Serbian, as well as an English language _Newsweek International_. _Russian
Newsweek_ , published since 2004, was shut in October 2010.[37] _The Bulletin_
(an Australian weekly until 2008) incorporated an international news section
from _Newsweek_.

Based in New York City, the magazine claimed 22 bureaus in 2011: nine in the
U.S.: New York City, Los Angeles, Chicago/Detroit, Dallas, Miami, Washington,
D.C., Boston and San Francisco, and others overseas in London, Paris, Berlin,
Moscow, Jerusalem, Baghdad, Tokyo, Hong Kong, Beijing, South Asia, Cape Town,
Mexico City and Buenos Aires.[ _citation needed_ ]

According to a 2015 column in the NY Post ("Media Ink": March 6, 2015),
_Newsweek_ 's circulation had fallen to "just over 100,000" with staff at that
time numbering "about 60 editorial staffers," up from a low of "less than 30
editorial staffers" in 2013, but with announced plans then to grow the number
to "close to 100 in the next year." [38]

## Highlights and controversies[edit]

### Allegations of sexism[edit]

In 1970, Eleanor Holmes Norton represented sixty female employees of
_Newsweek_ who had filed a claim with the Equal Employment Opportunity
Commission that _Newsweek_ had a policy of only allowing men to be
reporters.[15] The women won, and _Newsweek_ agreed to allow women to be
reporters.[15] The day the claim was filed, _Newsweek'_ s cover article was
"Women in Revolt", covering the feminist movement; the article was written by
Helen Dudar, a freelancer, on the belief that there were no female writers at
the magazine capable of handling the assignment. Those passed over included
Elizabeth Peer, who had spent five years in Paris as a foreign
correspondent.[39]

The 1986 cover of Newsweek that discussed unmarried women in America.

The 1986 cover of _Newsweek_ featured an article that said "women who weren't
married by 40 had a better chance of being killed by a terrorist than of
finding a husband".[40][41] _Newsweek_ eventually apologized for the story and
in 2010 launched a study that discovered 2 in 3 women who were 40 and single
in 1986 had married since.[40][42] The story caused a "wave of anxiety" and
some "skepticism" amongst professional and highly educated women in the United
States.[40][42] The article was cited several times in the 1993 Hollywood film
_Sleepless in Seattle_ starring Tom Hanks and Meg Ryan.[40][43] Comparisons
have been made with this article and the current rising issues surrounding the
social stigma of unwed women in Asia called _sheng nu_.[40]

Controversial _Newsweek_ cover, November 23, 2009, issue

Former Alaska Governor and 2008 Republican Vice Presidential nominee Sarah
Palin was featured on the cover of the November 23, 2009, issue of _Newsweek_
, with the caption "How do you Solve a Problem Like Sarah?" featuring an image
of Palin in athletic attire and posing. Palin herself, the _Los Angeles Times_
and other commentators accused _Newsweek_ of sexism for their choice of cover
in the November 23, 2009 issue discussing Palin's book, _Going Rogue: An
American Life_. "It's sexist as hell," wrote Lisa Richardson for the _Los
Angeles Times_.[44] Taylor Marsh of _The Huffington Post_ called it "the worst
case of pictorial sexism aimed at political character assassination ever done
by a traditional media outlet."[45] David Brody of CBN News stated: "This
cover should be insulting to women politicians."[46] The cover includes a
photo of Palin used in the August 2009 issue of _Runner's World_.[47][48][49]
The photographer may have breached his contract with _Runner's World_ when he
permitted its use in _Newsweek_ , as _Runner's World_ maintained certain
rights to the photo until August 2010. It is uncertain, however, whether this
particular use of the photo was prohibited.[50]

Minnesota Republican Congresswoman and presidential candidate Michele Bachmann
was featured on the cover of _Newsweek_ magazine in August 2011, dubbed "the
Queen of Rage".[51] The photo of her was perceived as unflattering, as it
portrayed her with a wide eyed expression some said made her look "crazy".[52]
Sources called the depiction "sexist",[53] and Sarah Palin denounced the
publication. _Newsweek_ defended the cover's depiction of her, saying its
other photos of Bachmann showed similar intensity.[54]

###  Other[edit]

Fareed Zakaria, a _Newsweek_ columnist and editor of _Newsweek International_
, attended a secret meeting on November 29, 2001, with a dozen policy makers,
Middle East experts and members of influential policy research organizations
that produced a report for President George W. Bush and his cabinet outlining
a strategy for dealing with Afghanistan and the Middle East in the aftermath
of September 11, 2001. The meeting was held at the request of Paul D.
Wolfowitz, then the Deputy Secretary of Defense. The unusual presence of
journalists, who also included Robert D. Kaplan of _The Atlantic Monthly_ , at
such a strategy meeting was revealed in Bob Woodward's 2006 book _State of
Denial: Bush at War, Part III_. Woodward reported in his book that, according
to Mr. Kaplan, everyone at the meeting signed confidentiality agreements not
to discuss what happened. Mr. Zakaria told _The New York Times_ that he
attended the meeting for several hours but did not recall being told that a
report for the President would be produced.[55] On October 21, 2006, after
verification, the _Times_ published a correction that stated:

> An article in Business Day on Oct. 9 about journalists who attended a secret
meeting in November 2001 called by Paul D. Wolfowitz, then the deputy
secretary of defense, referred incorrectly to the participation of Fareed
Zakaria, the editor of _Newsweek International_ and a _Newsweek_ columnist.
Mr. Zakaria was not told that the meeting would produce a report for the Bush
administration, nor did his name appear on the report.[55]

The cover story of the January 15, 2015, issue, titled _What Silicon Valley
Thinks of Women_ proved controversial, due to both its illustration, described
as "the cartoon of a faceless female in spiky red heels, having her dress
lifted up by a cursor arrow," and its content, described as "a 5,000-word
article on the creepy, sexist culture of the tech industry."[56][57] Among
those offended by the cover were Today Show co-host Tamron Hall, who commented
"I think it’s obscene and just despicable, honestly." _Newsweek_ editor in
chief James Impoco explained "We came up with an image that we felt
represented what that story said about Silicon Valley ... If people get angry,
they should be angry."[57] The article's author, Nina Burleigh, asked, "Where
were all these offended people when women like Heidi Roizen published accounts
of having a venture capitalist stick her hand in his pants under a table while
a deal was being discussed?"[58]

In January, 1998, _Newsweek_ reporter Michael Isikoff was the first reporter
to investigate allegations of a sexual relationship between U.S. President
Bill Clinton and Monica Lewinsky, but the editors spiked the story.[59] The
story soon surfaced online in the Drudge Report.

In the 2008 U.S. presidential election, the John McCain campaign wrote a
lengthy letter to the editor criticizing a cover story in May 2008.[60]

## Contributors and staff members[edit]

|

This section **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(March 2014)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
Notable contributors or employees have included:

  * Shana Alexander
  * Jonathan Alter
  * David Ansen
  * Pete Axthelm
  * Maziar Bahari
  * Paul Begala
  * Peter Beinart
  * Peter Benchley
  * Ben Bradlee
  * Dik Browne
  * Hal Bruno
  * Eleanor Clift
  * Arnaud de Borchgrave
  * Bill Downs
  * Joshua DuBois
  * Kurt Eichenwald
  * Osborn Elliott
  * Niall Ferguson
  * Howard Fineman

|

  * Nikki Finke
  * Karl Fleming
  * Lawrence Fried
  * Milton Friedman
  * David Frum
  * Freeman Fulbright
  * Robin Givhan
  * Michelle Goldberg
  * Meg Greenfield
  * Henry Hazlitt
  * Wilder Hobson
  * Michael Isikoff
  * Roger Kahn
  * Jack Kroll
  * Howard Kurtz
  * Eli Lake

|

  * John Lake
  * Charles Lane
  * John Lardner
  * Jon Meacham
  * Elizabeth Peer
  * Lynn Povich
  * Anna Quindlen
  * Karl Rove
  * Paul Samuelson[61]
  * Dick Schaap
  * Allan Sloan
  * Andrew Sullivan
  * Michael Tomasky
  * Peter Turnley
  * Margaret Warner
  * Mark Whitaker
  * George Will
  * Elijah Wolfson
  * Fareed Zakaria

  
---|---|---  
  
## See also[edit]

  * Journalism portal

  * List of magazines by circulation
  * _Newsweek Argentina_
  * _Newsweek Pakistan_
  * _Newsweek_ gay actor controversy
  * _Russky Newsweek_

##  References[edit]

  1. **^** "eCirc for Consumer Magazines". Alliance for Audited Media. December 31, 2012. Retrieved  June 21, 2013. 
  2. **^** Peter Grove; Lloyd Grove (August 3, 2010). "How _Newsweek_ Blew It". _The Daily Beast_. Retrieved  August 3, 2010. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Vega, Tanzina; Peters, Jeremy W. (August 2, 2010). "Audio Pioneer Buys Newsweek". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  2 August 2010. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Tina Brown (November 11, 2010). " _Daily Beast_ , _Newsweek_ to Wed!". _The Daily Beast_. Retrieved  November 12, 2010. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ " _The Daily Beast_ and _Newsweek_ confirm merger". _The Spy Report_. November 12, 2010. Retrieved  November 12, 2010. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "A Turn of the Page for Newsweek". _The Daily Beast_. October 21, 2012. Retrieved  October 18, 2012. 
  7. **^** Douglas A. McIntyre (October 18, 2012). "First Person: Reflections on Newsweek". _USA Today_. Retrieved  December 25, 2012. 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ " _Newsweek_ 's future:Goodbye ink". _Economist_. October 18, 2012. Retrieved  August 4, 2013. 
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "IBT Media to Acquire _Newsweek_ ". _Press release_. August 3, 2013. Retrieved  August 4, 2013. 
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Haughney, Christine (December 3, 2013). "Newsweek Plans Return to Print". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  December 4, 2013. 
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Kaufman, Leslie; Cohen, Noam (7 March 2014). "Newsweek Returns to Print and Sets Off a Bitcoin Storm". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  27 May 2014. 
  12. **^** _America's 60 Families_ by Ferdinand Lundberg
  13. **^** "Instant History: Review of First _Newsweek_ with Cover Photo". _BZTV_. February 17, 1933. Archived from the original on October 25, 2012. Retrieved  December 25, 2012. 
  14. **^** Salisbury, Harrison E. (March 10, 1961). "Washington Post Buys Newsweek. It Acquires 59% of Stock From Astor Foundation for $8,000,000". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  April 14, 2008. The Washington Post Company bought control of _Newsweek_ magazine yesterday from the Vincent Astor Foundation. The sale ended several weeks of intensive negotiation involving a number of publishing companies.  
  15. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Newsweek Agrees to End Sex Discrimination Policy". Eugene Register-Guard, via Google News. Associated Press. August 28, 1970.  
  16. **^** Lynn Povich (2013). _The Good Girls Revolt: How the Women of_ Newsweek _Sued their Bosses and Changed the Workplace_. PublicAffairs. ISBN 978-1610393263.  
  17. **^** 2013 America's Best High Schools
  18. **^** _Newsweek_ (2008): List of Public Elites
  19. **^** "Richard M. Smith". _Newsweek_. Archived from the original on December 25, 2014. Retrieved  December 25, 2012. 
  20. **^** Pérez-Peña, Richard (January 16, 2009). "The Popular Newsweekly Becomes a Lonely Category". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  January 17, 2009. 
  21. **^** Kathleen Deveny (May 18, 2009). "Reinventing Newsweek". _Newsweek_. Retrieved  29 May 2009. 
  22. **^** "A Smaller But Better Newsweek?". Howard Kurtz. _The Washington Post_ , May 18, 2009
  23. **^** Richard Pérez-Peña. "Glimmers of Progress at a Leaner Newsweek". _The New York Times_. November 15, 2009
  24. **^** Post Financial Release February 24, 2010
  25. **^** "Newsweek magazine is sold by Washington Post". _BBC News_. August 2, 2010. Retrieved  August 3, 2010. 
  26. **^** Andrew Vanacore. "Newsweek Sale: Washington Post Looking To Sell Newsweek". _The Huffington Post_.
  27. **^** Joe Pompeo. "Syrian Bidder Who Wanted To Buy _Newsweek_ Was Ignored". Business Insider. August 5, 2010
  28. **^** Jeremy W. Peters. _Newsweek_ Deal to Be Announced Today. _The New York Times_ , August 2, 2010
  29. **^** Ahrens, Frank (August 3, 2010). "Harman Media buys _Newsweek_ from Washington Post Co. for Undisclosed Amount". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  August 2, 2010. 
  30. **^** Paul Farhi (November 12, 2010). "Struggling _Newsweek_ joins with fledging Web site _Daily Beast_ ". _The Washington Post_. p.  C8. 
  31. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Josh Klenert (March 7, 2011). "First Look: The _Newsweek_ Redesign". _Grids_. Society of Publication Designers. Retrieved  December 25, 2012. 
  32. **^** " _Newsweek_ likely to become digital magazine". _Yahoo News_. Archived from the original on July 26, 2012. Retrieved  July 26, 2012. 
  33. **^** Bloomberg Television. Barry Diller: It Was a Mistake to Buy _Newsweek_. _Houston Business Journal_ , April 29, 2013.
  34. **^** Pompeo, Joe (October 8, 2014). " _Newsweek_ announces it's profitable". _Capital_. Retrieved  December 4, 2017. 
  35. **^** "Adria Media Group to launch _Newsweek Serbia_ ". _FIPP_. December 16, 2014. Retrieved  December 25, 2014. 
  36. **^** " 'Newsweek Appoints Matt McAllester as Global Editor in Chief, Newsweek". _PR Newswire_. February 14, 2017.  
  37. **^** "Publisher Shuts Russian Weekly". _The Wall Street Journal_. October 19, 2010.
  38. **^** "New editor Impoco has _Newsweek_ back in the black". _The New York Post_. March 6, 2015. _("The New York Post: Media Ink, "Accessed August 5, 2015))_
  39. **^** Lynn Povich (2013). _The Good Girls Revolt: How the Women of_ Newsweek _Sued their Bosses and Changed the Workplace_. PublicAffairs. pp.  4–5. ISBN 978-1610393263. 
  40. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Magistad, Mary Kay (20 February 2013). "BBC News - China's 'leftover women', unmarried at 27". _BBC News_. Beijing. Retrieved  29 March 2013. 
  41. **^** "China investing big in convincing 'leftover women' to get married". _Public Radio International_. 28 January 2013. Retrieved  2014-05-10. 
  42. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Newsweek Staff (5 July 2006). "Marriage by the Numbers". _Newsweek_. Retrieved  2014-05-10. 
  43. **^** Dr. Karl S. Kruszelnicki (4 September 2008). "Marriage statistics not without a hitch". _ABC News_. Retrieved  2014-05-10. 
  44. **^** " _Newsweek_ 's sexism and Sarah Palin." _Los Angeles Times_. November 17, 2009. Retrieved January 27, 2010.
  45. **^** Marsh, Taylor. "What Was Newsweek Thinking?" _The Huffington Post_. November 18, 2009. Retrieved January 27, 2010.
  46. **^** Brody, David. "Newsweek Photo of Palin Shows Media Bias and Sexism." _CBN News_. November 16, 2009. Retrieved January 27, 2010.
  47. **^** Snead, Elizabeth. "Sarah Palin hates her 'sexist' Newsweek cover. Does she really?" _Zap2it_. November 17, 2009. Retrieved January 27, 2010. Archived November 20, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  48. **^** Clift, Eleanor. "Payback Time: Why Right-Wing Men Rush to Palin's Defense." _Newsweek_. Monday November 16, 2009. Retrieved January 27, 2010. Archived November 19, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  49. **^** "Palin angered by 'sexist' Newsweek cover." _Yahoo! News_. November 17, 2009. Retrieved January 27, 2010. Archived November 20, 2009, at the Wayback Machine.
  50. **^** Bercovici, Jeff. "Palin photographer breached contract with sale to Newsweek." _Daily Finance_. November 18, 2009. Retrieved January 27, 2010.
  51. **^** "Michele Bachmann's Newsweek outtakes - Maggie Haberman". Politico.Com. Retrieved  2012-12-25. 
  52. **^** Mirkinson, Jack (August 8, 2011). " _Newsweek_ 's Michele Bachmann Cover Raises Eyebrows (PHOTO, POLL)". _The Huffington Post_.  
  53. **^** "Newsweek Michele Bachmann cover 'sexist' and in bad form?". _The Washington Post_. August 9, 2011.  
  54. **^** "Bachmann Newsweek Cover Goes for Insult But Gets Criticism in Return". Fox News. August 9, 2011.  
  55. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Julie Bosman. "Secret Iraq Meeting Included Journalists". _The New York Times_. October 9, 2006.
  56. **^** Burleigh, Nina (2015-01-28). "What Silicon Valley Thinks of Women". _Newsweek_. Retrieved  2015-03-21. 
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Grove, Lloyd (2015-01-29). "Is _Newsweek_ 's 'Red Heels' Cover Image Sexist?". _Daily Beast_. Retrieved  2015-03-21. 
  58. **^** Tam, Ruth (2015-01-30). "Artist behind Newsweek cover: it's not sexist, it depicts the ugliness of sexism". PBS NewsHour. Retrieved 2015-03-21. 
  59. **^** "Scandalous scoop breaks online". _BBC_. January 25, 1998. Retrieved  July 13, 2010. 
  60. **^** "The O-Team: A Response". _Newsweek_. May 11, 2008. Retrieved  December 25, 2012. 
  61. **^** "Paul Samuelson". _The Economist_. ISSN 0013-0613. Retrieved  2016-04-26. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Newsweek**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Graham Holdings Company
  * History and Demographics of _Newsweek_

  * v
  * t
  * e

Current White House James S. Brady Press Briefing Room seating chart  
  
---  
  
| Row | Podium  
---|---  
  
**1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7**

|

NBC  
_Wall Street Journal_  
Agence France-Presse  
MSNBC  
Bloomberg BNA  
_Washington Examiner_  
Talk Media News/Univision

|

Fox News  
CBS Radio  
AP Radio  
Foreign Pool  
_Time_  
Yahoo! News  
_Dallas Morning News_

|

CBS News  
Bloomberg  
McClatchy  
_Washington Times_  
SiriusXM  
Salem Radio  
_Globe_/ _Roll Call_

|

AP  
NPR  
AURN  
_The Hill_  
Regionals  
Newsmax  
CBN

|

ABC News  
_Washington Post_  
Politico  
Fox News Radio  
_CSM_/ _NY Post_  
_Daily Mail_  
BBC/OAN

|

Reuters  
_NY Times_  
_Chicago Tribune_  
VOA  
RealClearPolitics  
_HuffPost_ / _NY Daily News_  
_BuzzFeed_ / _Daily Beast_

|

CNN  
_USA Today_  
ABC Radio  
_National Journal_  
Al Jazeera/PBS  
Westwood One  
_Financial Times_ / _Guardian_  
  
The seating chart as of July 10, 2017.  
  
White House Correspondents' Association  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Major English-language current affairs and culture magazines  
  
---  
Australia |

  * _Australian Book Review_
  * _Griffith Review_
  * _Meanjin_
  * _The Monthly_
  * _New Internationalist Australia_
  * _News Weekly_
  * _Overland_
  * _Quadrant_
  * _Southerly_

  
  
Bangladesh |

  * _Dhaka Courier_
  * _Forum_
  * _The Star_

  
  
Belgium |

  * _The Bulletin_
  * _E!Sharp_
  * _EUobserver_

  
  
Canada |

  * _Alberta Views_
  * _Canadian Dimension_
  * _The Dorchester Review_
  * _Geist_
  * _Literary Review of Canada_
  * _Maclean's_
  * _Maisonneuve_
  * _Paaras_
  * _This Magazine_
  * _The Tyee_
  * _The Walrus_

  
  
China |

  * _Beijing Review_

  
  
Ethiopia |

  * _Capital Ethiopia_
  * _Ethiopian Review_

  
  
Hong Kong |

  * _Asiaweek_
  * _Asia Sentinel_

  
  
India |

  * _Frontline_
  * _India Today_
  * _Open_
  * _Outlook_
  * _Tehelka_
  * _The Week_

  
  
Ireland |

  * _forth_
  * _The Phoenix_
  * _Village_

  
  
Israel |

  * _The Jerusalem Report_

  
  
New Zealand |

  * _Investigate_
  * _New Zealand Listener_
  * _North& South_

  
  
Pakistan |

  * _Herald_
  * _Newsline_

  
  
South Africa |

  * _Amandla_

  
  
Syria |

  * _Forward_

  
  
United  
Kingdom |

| General |

  * _The Big Issue_
  * _The Drouth_
  * _The Economist_
  * _FT Magazine_
  * _The Guardian Weekly_
  * _The Middle East in London_
  * _Monocle_
  * _New African_
  * _New Internationalist_
  * _The Oldie_
  * _Private Eye_
  * _The Sunday Times Magazine_
  * _The Week_

  
  
---|---  
Intellectual |

  * _London Review of Books_
  * _New Left Review_
  * _The Times Literary Supplement_

  
  
Political |

  * _New Statesman_
  * _Prospect_
  * _The Spectator_
  * _Intersec_
  * _Standpoint_
  * _The Week_

  
  
United  
States |

| General |

  * _The Atlantic_
  * _The Christian Science Monitor_
  * _Foreign Policy_
  * _Harper's Magazine_
  * _Newsweek_
  * _New York_
  * _The New Yorker_
  * _The New York Times Magazine_
  * _Salon_
  * _Slate_
  * _Time_
  * _U.S. News& World Report_
  * _Utne Reader_

  
  
---|---  
Intellectual |

  * _Current History_
  * _Dissent_
  * _Jacobin_
  * _The New York Review of Books_
  * _The Wilson Quarterly_

  
  
Political |

  * _The American Conservative_
  * _The American Interest_
  * _The American Prospect_
  * _The American Spectator_
  * _Foreign Affairs_
  * _Human Events_
  * _Mother Jones_
  * _The Nation_
  * _The National Interest_
  * _National Journal_
  * _National Review_
  * _The New Republic_
  * _The Progressive_
  * _Reason_
  * _The Weekly Standard_

  
  
See also

    News magazine  
  
Authority control |

  * ISNI: 0000 0001 0220 7548

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Newsweek&oldid=814697306"

Categories:

  * Newsweek
  * 1933 establishments in New York (state)
  * Magazines established in 1933
  * American news magazines
  * American weekly magazines
  * Magazines published in New York City
  * Independent magazines
  * IBT Media

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from March 2011
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2011
  * Articles needing additional references from March 2014
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * বাংলা
  * Български
  * Brezhoneg
  * Català
  * Чӑвашла
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Қазақша
  * Kurdî
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Slovenčina
  * Српски / srpski
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 10 December 2017, at 10:42.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

