

# Paul Mellon

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

This article includes a list of references, but **its sources remain unclear**
because it has **insufficientinline citations**.  Please help to improve this
article by introducing more precise citations. _(February 2011)_ _(Learn how
and when to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
Paul Mellon  
---  
  
Paul Mellon  
  
Born | (1907-06-11)June 11, 1907  
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.  
Died | February 1, 1999(1999-02-01) (aged 91)  
Upperville, Virginia, U.S.  
Alma mater | Yale University, University of Cambridge, Clare College,
Cambridge  
Occupation | Businessman:  
Corporate investor  
Racehorse owner/breeder  
Philanthropist  
Spouse(s) | 1) Mary Conover Brown (d. 1946)  
2) Rachel Lambert Lloyd  
Children | Catherine, Timothy  
Parent(s) | Andrew W. Mellon &  
Nora McMullen  
Honors |

  * US Military - Bronze Star Medal (WW II)
  * Order of the British Empire (K.B.E.) (1974)
  * National Medal of Arts (1985)
  * National Medal of Arts and Humanities (1997)
  * Thoroughbred horse racing honors:  
Exemplar of Racing  
Virginia Thoroughbred Association Hall of Fame (1988)  
Eclipse Award for Outstanding Breeder  
(1971, 1986)  
Virginia Sports Hall of Fame (1999)  
English Jockey Club Hall of Fame

  
  
**Paul Mellon** (June 11, 1907 – February 1, 1999) was an American
philanthropist and an owner/breeder of thoroughbred racehorses. He is one of
only five people ever designated an "Exemplar of Racing" by the National
Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. He was co-heir to one of America's greatest
business fortunes, derived from the Mellon Bank created by his grandfather
Thomas Mellon, his father Andrew W. Mellon, and his father's brother Richard
B. Mellon. In 1957, when _Fortune_ prepared its first list of the wealthiest
Americans, it estimated that Paul Mellon, his sister Ailsa Mellon-Bruce, and
his cousins Sarah Mellon and Richard King Mellon, were all among the richest
eight people in the United States, with fortunes of between 400 and 700
million dollars each (around $3,400,000,000 and $6,000,000,000 in today's
dollars).

Mellon's autobiography, _Reflections in a Silver Spoon_ , was published in
1992. He died at his home, Oak Spring, in Upperville, Virginia, on February 1,
1999. He was survived by his wife, Rachel (a.k.a. Bunny), his children,
Catherine Conover (first wife of John Warner) and Timothy Mellon, and two
stepchildren, Stacy Lloyd III and Eliza, Viscountess Moore.

## Contents

  * 1 Biography
    * 1.1 Marriage and military service
    * 1.2 Art collection
    * 1.3 Rokeby Stables
    * 1.4 Establishment of philanthropic foundations
      * 1.4.1 Yale
      * 1.4.2 Other philanthropy
  * 2 Honors and awards
  * 3 Quotations
  * 4 News stories
  * 5 References
  * 6 External links

## Biography[edit]

Paul Mellon was the son of Andrew W. Mellon, US Secretary of the Treasury from
1921 to 1932, and Nora McMullen of Hertfordshire and brother of Ailsa Mellon-
Bruce. He graduated from The Choate School (now Choate Rosemary Hall) in
Wallingford, Connecticut, in 1925, where he wrote for the literary magazine
and composed the school hymn. He then went on to graduate from from Yale
College and the University of Cambridge. At Yale, he was a member of Chi Psi
Fraternity, Scroll and Key and served as vice-chairman of the _Yale Daily
News_. He was a great benefactor of his alma maters, donating to the Forbes-
Mellon Library at the University of Cambridge, the Mellon Arts Center and the
Mellon (now Icahn) Science Center to Choate, two residential colleges, and the
Yale Center for British Art.

After graduating from Yale, he went to England to study at the University of
Cambridge, receiving a BA in 1931, while his father served as the US
Ambassador to the Court of St. James's from 1932 to 1933. In 1930, he was a
founding member, alongside Sir Timothy William Gowers, of the CRABS, the Clare
Rugby And Boating Society (the oldest of the collegiate Gentlemen's societies
still active). In 1938, he received an Oxbridge MA from Clare College,
Cambridge. He was a major benefactor to Clare College's Forbes-Mellon Library,
opened in 1986.

### Marriage and military service[edit]

Paul Mellon (William Orpen, 1924)

Mellon returned to Pittsburgh, to work for Mellon Bank and other businesses
for six months. In 1935, he married Mary Conover Brown and the couple, who had
two children, Catherine and Timothy, moved to Virginia.

He enrolled at St. John's College in Annapolis, Maryland in 1940 but six
months later joined the United States Army, asking to join the cavalry. Mellon
served with the Office of Strategic Services in Europe. He rose to the rank of
major and was the recipient of four Bronze Stars.[ _citation needed_ ]

After his wife Mary's death in 1946 from an asthma attack, he married Rachel
Lambert Lloyd, known as "Bunny", the former wife of Stacy Barcroft Lloyd Jr.
She was a descendant of the Lambert family who formulated and marketed
Listerine and an heiress to the Warner-Lambert corporate fortune (Warner-
Lambert is now part of Pfizer, following a 2000 merger). Bunny Mellon was an
avid horticulturist and gardener, whose fondness for French Impressionist and
Post-Impressionist painting, as well as American art, Mellon came to share.[1]
By this marriage, he had two stepchildren: Stacy Lloyd III and Eliza Lambert
Lloyd (d. 2008; who married and divorced Viscount Moore).

### Art collection[edit]

While Mellon did not share his father's interest in business, the two found
common ground in their love of art and philanthropy. Shortly before Andrew
Mellon's death in 1937, construction began on the West Building of the
National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C., for which Andrew Mellon had
provided funds. Four years later Paul Mellon presented both the building by
John Russell Pope and his father's collection of 115 paintings to the nation.
He served on the museum's board for more than four decades: as trustee, as
president (twice), as board chair, and as honorary trustee. Mellon
commissioned I. M. Pei to build the East Building and, with his sister Ailsa,
provided funds for its construction in the late 1970s. Over the years he and
his wife Bunny donated more than 1,000 works to the National Gallery, among
them many French and American masterworks.

In 1936 Mellon purchased his first British painting, "Pumpkin with a Stable-
lad" by George Stubbs, who became a lifetime favorite of Mellon's. Beginning
in the late 1950s, with the help of English art historian Basil Taylor, Mellon
amassed a major collection by the mid-1960s. London art dealer Geoffrey Agnew
once said of his acquisitions: “It took an American collector to make the
English look again at their own paintings.”

Mellon granted his extensive collection of British art, rare books, and
related materials to Yale University in the 1960s, along with the funding to
create an appropriate museum to house it (designed by Louis Kahn). He
characteristically insisted that it not be named in honor of him, but rather
would be called the Yale Center for British Art, to encourage others to
support it as well. Mellon also provided extensive endowment support to fund
not only operations but also an ongoing program of acquisitions, and he made a
generous bequest to the Center at the time of his death. The Paul Mellon
Centre for Studies in British Art was founded in 1970 through a generous grant
to Yale University, as a London-based affiliate of the New Haven center, to
encourage study of British art and culture both at the undergraduate and the
research scholar levels.

Mellon also provided important leadership gifts to the Virginia Museum of Fine
Arts in Richmond, Virginia, as well as Choate Rosemary Hall.

### Rokeby Stables[edit]

Mellon owned many thoroughbred horses under his Rokeby Stables, including
Kentucky Derby winner Sea Hero. Two of his horses, Arts and Letters and Fort
Marcy, were named American Horse of the Year in 1969 and 1970 respectively.
Both are inductees in the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame. He also
owned two European champions, Mill Reef and Gold and Ivory. Mill Reef was the
#8 rated horse in the world for the 20th Century in _A Century of Champions_ ,
by John Randall and Tony Morris. Mellon won the Eclipse Award for Outstanding
Breeder in 1971 and again in 1986.

### Establishment of philanthropic foundations[edit]

Mellon established the Old Dominion Foundation in 1941 and the Bollingen
Foundation in 1945, both to support advancement and learning of the humanities
and liberal education. The Bollingen Foundation published over 100 books
before closing in 1969, the same year the assets of the Old Dominion
Foundation were merged into those of the his sister Ailsa's Avalon Foundation.
The combined organization was renamed The Andrew W. Mellon Foundation in honor
of their father.

#### Yale[edit]

Paul Mellon's foremost philanthropic interest was his alma mater, Yale
University. His most generous and well-known gifts established the Yale Center
for British Art, but his legacy makes itself felt across the campus.

Mellon's other major gift was to provide extensive funding to support the
creation of two new undergraduate residential colleges at Yale, Ezra Stiles
College and Morse College. Designed by Eero Saarinen, these colleges along
with the Kahn-designed British Art Center demonstrated Mellon's commitment to
bringing modern architecture to Yale. Perhaps most importantly, the additional
undergraduate capacity that these colleges provided were a critical
prerequisite to the ability of the university to transition to co-education.

Beyond these capital gifts, Mellon endowed the deanships of each of Yale's 12
residential colleges. He created the Mellon Senior Forum program, which
provides a weekly meal for seniors in each of the residential colleges where
they can share progress on their senior essays and projects with one another.

Mellon was active in the humanities at Yale. He provided the funding necessary
to create the Directed Studies program of intense freshman-year focus on the
humanities. He supported significantly the undergraduate theater studies
program, and endowed named professorships in schools throughout the
University, particularly in the humanities.

#### Other philanthropy[edit]

Mellon was highly supportive of causes that advanced the preservation of
horses, including the Grayson-Jockey Club Research Foundation. That
organization allocates grants towards specific research projects for the
safety, welfare, longevity and improvement of life for race horses.

He donated the $1 million bonus that Sea Hero won in the Chrysler Triple Crown
Challenge to the United States Jockey Club's Grayson-Jockey Club Research
Foundation. Furthermore, he requested that double that amount be raised in
response to his donation. That goal was met during the 1995–1996 fiscal year.
Upon his death he left yet another $2.5 million to the Foundation's endowment.

In 1999, Paul Mellon bequeathed $8 million to the University of Cambridge in
England for the Fitzwilliam Museum. During his lifetime he agreed that £1
million of that sum could be allocated to the Museum's Courtyard Development
and, under the terms of his Will, following his death in 1999, his Executors
subsequently allocated a further $12.5 million to complete the renovations
associated with the Courtyard, including the re-lighting of all of the
Museum's galleries. The remaining balance was added to the Paul Mellon Fund
which was established as a trust fund for the Museum at the time of the
bequest, the income from which is being used to support education, exhibitions
and publications.

He also helped to buy the 28,625-acre Cape Hatteras National Seashore and the
1,500-acre Sky Meadows State Park in the Blue Ridge Mountains of Virginia,
where he used to go to look at the stars.[2]

He was also a major benefactor of Clare College and Clare Hall, both in
Cambridge, England. Indeed, Clare Hall, founded 1966, gains much from his
benefaction; his generous bequest serves the intellectual needs of the
graduate college members. The Mellon Fellowship is another example of his
generosity, permitting the reciprocal exchange of two students from Yale and
two from Clare College for graduate study in each other's institutions.

He developed his great love of England and English culture while studying at
Clare College from 1929-1931. "It was while I was at Cambridge that I embarked
on the dangerous seas of collecting", Paul Mellon once said—a statement by the
man who described himself as "the incurable collector" that has had profound
implications for his major beneficiaries, both in the US and the UK.[3]

Mellon helped to arrange the merger of the Mellon Institute of Industrial
Research, founded by his father Andrew W. Mellon and uncle Richard B. Mellon
with Andrew Carnegie's Carnegie Institute of Technology in 1967 to create
Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh.[4][5] Additionally, he donated
substantial funds to Carnegie Mellon.[6]

## Honors and awards[edit]

Plaque to Paul Mellon, American philanthropist and _galloping_ anglophile
within St George's, Bloomsbury

Paul Mellon was a trustee of the National Museum of Racing and Hall of Fame
and one of the only five people ever designated an "Exemplar of Racing" by the
Hall of Fame. He was also inducted into the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame and
the English Jockey Club Hall of Fame.

Among honors, he was created an Honorary Knight Commander of the Most
Excellent Order of the British Empire (KBE) in 1974, awarded the National
Medal of Arts in 1985, and awarded the National Medal of Arts and Humanities
in 1997.

In 1978, Mellon received the S. Roger Horchow Award for Greatest Public
Service by a Private Citizen, an award given out annually by Jefferson
Awards.[7]

## Quotations[edit]

  * "I have been an amateur in every phase of my life; an amateur poet, an amateur scholar, an amateur horseman, an amateur farmer, an amateur soldier, an amateur connoisseur of art, an amateur publisher, and an amateur museum executive. The root of the word "amateur" is the Latin word for love, and I can honestly say that I've thoroughly enjoyed all the roles I have played." —Paul Mellon from his autobiography _Reflections in a Silver Spoon_.[1]

##  News stories[edit]

  * Paul Mellon remembered by the National Gallery of Art

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Paul Mellon, Founder". Yale Center for British Art. Retrieved  19 March 2014. 
  2. **^** https://www.washingtonpost.com/wp-dyn/content/article/2007/03/19/AR2007031901844.html
  3. **^** "News". _Cambridge Network_.  
  4. **^** http://www.cmu.edu/presidential-search/images/13-038_Presidential_Search_81712.pdf
  5. **^** http://www.cmu.edu/presidential-search/index.html
  6. **^** "Dietrich's donation to be one of higher education's largest". _thetartan.org_.  
  7. **^** "National - Jefferson Awards". _Jefferson Awards_.  

## External links[edit]

  * National Gallery of Art: Paul Mellon Remembered
  * "Reflections in a Silver Spoon: on the Life of Paul Mellon", Yale Bulletin & Calendar, 27:20 February 8–15, 1999
  * Paul Mellon at the Yale University Center for British Art
  * Paul Mellon at the Virginia Museum of Fine Arts
  * Paul Mellon's Personal Library at the University of Virginia
  * Paul Mellon at The National Sporting Library
  * Paul Mellon at the Virginia Sports Hall of Fame
  * Patrick Ward, Donations Need Not Have Name Attached, Yale Daily News, November 7, 2006, yaledailynews.com
  * David Cannadine, _Mellon: An American Life_ , Knopf, 2006, ISBN 0-679-45032-7
  * Grayson-Jockey Club Research Foundation, Inc. - History
  * _Celebrating Paul Mellon_ , at the Virginia Museum of Fine Art
  * Michael Glover. 2007-09-22. The Times. "Paul Mellon’s Legacy: A Passion for British Art". Retrieved 2007-12-03.
  * Francis Marion Bush, Paul Mellon:Visionary of the Turf,North Charleston, S.C.,BookSurge Publ,2006,ISBN 1-4196-1570-X
  * Bowen, Edward L. _Legacies of the Turf: A Century of Great Thoroughbred Breeders_ (2003) Eclipse Press ISBN 978-1-58150-102-5
  * Paul Mellon at Find-A-Grave
  * The Bollingen Foundation Collection From the Library of Congress

Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 13551621
  * LCCN: n50013907
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 0286 8151
  * GND: 119527162
  * SUDOC: 088872513
  * BNF: cb130820717 (data)
  * ULAN: 500253675
  * RKD: 357045
  * IATH: w61r72jc

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Paul_Mellon&oldid=816695957"

Categories:

  * 1907 births
  * 1999 deaths
  * Choate Rosemary Hall alumni
  * Yale University alumni
  * American military personnel of World War II
  * American racehorse owners and breeders
  * Owners of Epsom Derby winners
  * Eclipse Award winners
  * American philanthropists
  * American art collectors
  * United States National Medal of Arts recipients
  * Honorary Knights Commander of the Order of the British Empire
  * Sportspeople from Pittsburgh
  * People from Fauquier County, Virginia
  * Mellon family
  * Fellows of Clare Hall, Cambridge
  * Alumni of Clare College, Cambridge
  * American people of Scotch-Irish descent
  * National Humanities Medal recipients
  * Owners of Prix de l'Arc de Triomphe winners

Hidden categories:

  * Articles lacking in-text citations from February 2011
  * All articles lacking in-text citations
  * Articles with hCards
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2015
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ULAN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with RKDartists identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Deutsch
  * Français
  * 日本語

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 23 December 2017, at 02:08.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

