

# Policy

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

For policies regarding Wikipedia, see Wikipedia:List of policies or
Wikipedia:Policies and guidelines.

For other uses, see Policy (disambiguation).

_Part ofa series on_  
---  
Politics  
  
Primary topics

  * Index of politics articles
  * Politics by country
  * Politics by subdivision
  * Political economy
  * Political history
  * Political history of the world
  * Political philosophy

  
  
Political systems

  * Anarchy

  * City-state
  * Democracy

  * Federacy
  * Feudalism

  * Dictatorship
  * Directory

  * Meritocracy
  * Monarchy

  * Parliamentary
  * Presidential

  * Republic
  * Semi-parliamentary

  * Semi-presidential
  * Theocracy

  
  
Academic disciplines

  * Political science  
(political scientists)

  * International relations  
(theory)

  * Comparative politics

  
  
Public administration

  * Bureaucracy (street-level)
  * Adhocracy

  
  
Policy

  * Public policy (doctrine)

  * Domestic and foreign policy

    Civil society

  * Public interest

  
  
Organs of government

  * Separation of powers

  * Legislature
  * Executive

  * Judiciary
  * Election commission

  
  
Related topics

  * Sovereignty
  * Theories of political behavior
  * Political psychology
  * Biology and political orientation
  * Political organisations
  * Foreign electoral intervention

  
  
Subseries

  * Electoral systems

  * Elections (voting)

  * Federalism
  * Form of government

  * Ideology
  * Political campaigning

  * Political parties

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
A **policy** is a deliberate system of principles to guide decisions and
achieve rational outcomes. A policy is a statement of intent, and is
implemented as a procedure or protocol. Policies are generally adopted by a
governance body within an organization. Policies can assist in both
_subjective_ and _objective_ decision making. Policies to assist in subjective
decision making usually assist senior management with decisions that must be
based on the relative merits of a number of factors, and as a result are often
hard to test objectively, e.g. work-life balance policy. In contrast policies
to assist in objective decision making are usually operational in nature and
can be objectively tested, e.g. password policy.[1]

The term may apply to government, private sector organizations and groups, as
well as individuals. Presidential executive orders, corporate privacy
policies, and parliamentary rules of order are all examples of policy. Policy
differs from rules or law. While law can compel or prohibit behaviors (e.g. a
law requiring the payment of taxes on income), policy merely guides actions
toward those that are most likely to achieve a desired outcome.[ _citation
needed_ ]

Policy or policy study may also refer to the process of making important
organizational decisions, including the identification of different
alternatives such as programs or spending priorities, and choosing among them
on the basis of the impact they will have. Policies can be understood as
political, managerial, financial, and administrative mechanisms arranged to
reach explicit goals. In public corporate finance, a critical accounting
policy is a policy for a firm/company or an industry which is considered to
have a notably high subjective element, and that has a material impact on the
financial statements.[ _citation needed_ ]

## Contents

  * 1 Impact
    * 1.1 Intended effects
    * 1.2 Unintended effects
  * 2 Policy cycle
  * 3 Content
  * 4 Typologies
    * 4.1 Distributive policies
    * 4.2 Regulatory policies
    * 4.3 Constituent policies
    * 4.4 Redistributive policies
  * 5 Specific policy types
  * 6 Other uses of the term
  * 7 See also
  * 8 Notes and references
  * 9 Further reading
  * 10 External links

## Impact[edit]

### Intended effects[edit]

The intended effects of a policy vary widely according to the organization and
the context in which they are made. Broadly, policies are typically instituted
to avoid some negative effect that has been noticed in the organization, or to
seek some positive benefit.[ _citation needed_ ]

Corporate purchasing policies provide an example of how organizations attempt
to avoid negative effects. Many large companies have policies that all
purchases above a certain value must be performed through a purchasing
process. By requiring this standard purchasing process through policy, the
organization can limit waste and standardize the way purchasing is done.[
_citation needed_ ]

The State of California provides an example of benefit-seeking policy. In
recent years, the numbers of hybrid cars in California has increased
dramatically, in part because of policy changes in Federal law that provided
USD $1,500 in tax credits (since phased out) as well as the use of high-
occupancy vehicle lanes to hybrid owners (no loew hybrid vehicles). In this
case, the organization (state and/or federal government) created an effect
(increased ownership and use of hybrid vehicles) through policy (tax breaks,
highway lanes).[ _citation needed_ ]

### Unintended effects[edit]

Policies frequently have side effects or unintended consequences. Because the
environments that policies seek to influence or manipulate are typically
complex adaptive systems (e.g. governments, societies, large companies),
making a policy change can have counterintuitive results. For example, a
government may make a policy decision to raise taxes, in hopes of increasing
overall tax revenue. Depending on the size of the tax increase, this may have
the overall effect of reducing tax revenue by causing capital flight or by
creating a rate so high that citizens are deterred from earning the money that
is taxed. (See the Laffer curve.)[ _citation needed_ ]

The policy formulation process theoretically includes an attempt to assess as
many areas of potential policy impact as possible, to lessen the chances that
a given policy will have unexpected or unintended consequences.[ _citation
needed_ ]

## Policy cycle[edit]

In political science, the **policy cycle** is a tool used for the analyzing of
the development of a policy item. It can also be referred to as a "stagist
approach", "stages heuristic" or "stages approach". It is thus a rule of thumb
rather than the actual reality of how policy is created, but has been
influential in how political scientists looked at policy in general.[2] It was
developed as a theory from Harold Lasswell's work.

One version by James E. Anderson, in his _Public Policy-Making_ (1974) has the
following stages:

  1. Agenda setting (Problem identification) - The recognition of certain subject as a problem demanding further government attention.
  2. Policy Formulation - Involves exploring a variation of options or alternative courses of action available for addressing the problem. (appraisal, dialogue, formulation, and consolidation)
  3. Decision-making - Government decides on an ultimate course of action, whether to perpetuate the policy status quo or alter it. (Decision could be 'positive', 'negative', or 'no-action')
  4. Implementation \- The ultimate decision made earlier will be put into practice.
  5. Evaluation \- Assesses the effectiveness of a public policy in terms of its perceived intentions and results. Policy actors attempt to determine whether the course of action is a success or failure by examining its impact and outcomes.

An eight step policy cycle is developed in detail in _The Australian Policy
Handbook_ by Peter Bridgman and Glyn Davis: (now with Catherine Althaus in its
4th and 5th editions)

  1. Issue identification
  2. Policy analysis
  3. Consultation (which permeates the entire process)
  4. Policy instrument development
  5. Building coordination and coalitions
  6. Program Design: Decision making
  7. Policy Implementation
  8. Policy Evaluation

The Althaus, Bridgman & Davis model is heuristic and iterative. It is
intentionally normative[ _clarification needed_ ] and not meant to be
diagnostic[ _clarification needed_ ] or predictive. Policy cycles are
typically characterized as adopting a classical approach, and tend to describe
processes from the perspective of policy decision makers. Accordingly, some
postpositivist academics challenge cyclical models as unresponsive and
unrealistic, preferring systemic and more complex models.[3] They consider a
broader range of actors involved in the policy space that includes civil
society organisations, the media, intellectuals, think tanks or policy
research institutes, corporations, lobbyists, etc.

## Content[edit]

Policies are typically promulgated through official written documents. Policy
documents often come with the endorsement or signature of the executive powers
within an organization to legitimize the policy and demonstrate that it is
considered in force. Such documents often have standard formats that are
particular to the organization issuing the policy. While such formats differ
in form, policy documents usually contain certain standard components
including **[ _citation needed_ ]**Â :

  * A **purpose statement** , outlining why the organization is issuing the policy, and what its desired effect or outcome of the policy should be.
  * An **applicability and scope** statement, describing who the policy affects and which actions are impacted by the policy. The applicability and scope may expressly exclude certain people, organizations, or actions from the policy requirements. Applicability and scope is used to focus the policy on only the desired targets, and avoid unintended consequences where possible.
  * An **effective date** which indicates when the policy comes into force. Retroactive policies are rare, but can be found.
  * A **responsibilities** section, indicating which parties and organizations are responsible for carrying out individual policy statements. Many policies may require the establishment of some ongoing function or action. For example, a purchasing policy might specify that a purchasing office be created to process purchase requests, and that this office would be responsible for ongoing actions. Responsibilities often include identification of any relevant oversight and/or governance structures.
  * **Policy statements** indicating the specific regulations, requirements, or modifications to organizational behavior that the policy is creating. Policy statements are extremely diverse depending on the organization and intent, and may take almost any form.

Some policies may contain additional sections, including:

  * **Background** , indicating any reasons, history, and intent that led to the creation of the policy, which may be listed as **motivating factors**. This information is often quite valuable when policies must be evaluated or used in ambiguous situations, just as the intent of a law can be useful to a court when deciding a case that involves that law.
  * **Definitions** , providing clear and unambiguous definitions for terms and concepts found in the policy document.[ _citation needed_ ]

## Typologies[edit]

Theodore J. Lowi, famous American political scientist proposed four types of
policy namely **distributive** , **redistributive** , **regulatory** and
**constituent** in his article 'Four systems of Policy, Politics and Choice'
and in 'American Business, Public Policy, Case Studies and Political Theory'.
Policy addresses the intent of the organization, whether government, business,
professional, or voluntary. Policy is intended to affect the 'real' world, by
guiding the decisions that are made. Whether they are formally written or not,
most organizations have identified policies.[4]

Policies may be classified in many different ways. The following is a sample
of several different types of policies broken down by their effect on members
of the organization.

### Distributive policies[edit]

Distributive policies extend goods and services to members of an organization,
as well as distributing the costs of the goods/services amongst the members of
the organization. Examples include government policies that impact spending
for welfare, public education, highways, and public safety, or a professional
organization's benefits plan.

### Regulatory policies[edit]

Regulatory policies, or mandates, limit the discretion of individuals and
agencies, or otherwise compel certain types of behavior. These policies are
generally thought to be best applied when good behavior can be easily defined
and bad behavior can be easily regulated and punished through fines or
sanctions. An example of a fairly successful public regulatory policy is that
of a speed limit.

### Constituent policies[edit]

Constituent policies create executive power entities, or deal with laws.
Constituent policies also deal with Fiscal Policy in some circumstances.[
_citation needed_ ]

### Redistributive policies[edit]

Policies are dynamic; they are not just static lists of goals or laws. Policy
blueprints have to be implemented, often with unexpected results. Social
policies are what happens 'on the ground' when they are implemented, as well
as what happens at the decision making or legislative stage.

When the term policy is used, it may also refer to:

  * Official government policy (legislation or guidelines that govern how laws should be put into operation)
  * Broad ideas and goals in political manifestos and pamphlets
  * A company or organization's policy on a particular topic. For example, the equal opportunity policy of a company shows that the company aims to treat all its staff equally.

The actions the organization actually takes may often vary significantly from
stated policy. This difference is sometimes caused by political compromise
over policy, while in other situations it is caused by lack of policy
implementation and enforcement. Implementing policy may have unexpected
results, stemming from a policy whose reach extends further than the problem
it was originally crafted to address. Additionally, unpredictable results may
arise from selective or idiosyncratic enforcement of policy.[ _citation
needed_ ]

Types of policy analysis include:

  * Causal (resp. non-causal)
  * Deterministic (resp. stochastic, randomized and sometimes non-deterministic)
  * Index
  * Memoryless (e.g. non-stationary)
  * Opportunistic (resp. non-opportunistic)
  * Stationary (resp. non-stationary)

These qualifiers can be combined, so for example you could have a stationary-
memoryless-index policy.

## Specific policy types[edit]

  * Company Policy
  * Communications and Information Policy is under Information policy
  * Human resource policies
  * Privacy policy
  * Public policy
  * Defense policy
  * Domestic policy
  * Economic policy
  * Education policy
  * Energy policy
  * Environmental Policy and National Environmental Policy Act
  * Foreign policy
  * Forest policy
  * Health policy
  * Housing policy
  * Information policy
  * Macroeconomic policy
  * Monetary policy
  * Plan
  * Population policy
  * Public policy in law
  * Science policy
  * Security policy
  * Social policy
  * Urban policy
  * Transportation policy
  * Water policy

## Other uses of the term[edit]

  * In enterprise architecture for systems design, policy appliances are technical control and logging mechanisms to enforce or reconcile policy (systems use) rules and to ensure accountability in information systems.
  * In insurance, policies are contracts between insurer and insured used to indemnify (protect) against potential loss from specified perils. While these documents are referred to as policies, they are in actuality a form of contract \- see insurance contract.
  * In gambling, policy is a form of an unsanctioned lottery, where players purport to purchase _insurance_ against a chosen number being picked by a legitimate lottery. Or can refer to an ordinary Numbers game
  * In artificial intelligence planning and _reinforcement learning_ , a policy prescribes a non-empty deliberation (sequence of actions) given a non-empty sequence of states.
  * In debate, the term "policy" is slang for policy or cross-examination debate.

## See also[edit]

  * Blueprint
  * Distributive tendency
  * Iron triangle
  * Mandate (politics)
  * Overton window
  * Pattern language
  * Policy alienation
  * Policy analysis
  * Policy Governance
  * Policy studies
  * Political science
  * Program evaluation
  * Public administration
  * Public health
  * Public policy (law)
  * Public policy schools
  * Public services
  * Social contract
  * Social welfare
  * Social work
  * Think tank

## Notes and references[edit]

  1. **^** http://sydney.edu.au/legal/policy/what/index.shtml
  2. **^** Robert T. Nakamura, THE TEXTBOOK POLICY PROCESS AND IMPLEMENTATION RESEARCH: Review of Policy Research Volume 7, Issue 1, pages 142â154, September 1987 http://onlinelibrary.wiley.com/doi/10.1111/j.1541-1338.1987.tb00034.x/abstract
  3. **^** Young, John and Enrique Mendizabal. Helping researchers become policy entrepreneurs, Overseas Development Institute, London, September 2009.
  4. **^** https://perguntasaopo.files.wordpress.com/2012/02/lowi_1972_four-systems-of-policy-politics-and-choice.pdf

  * Blakemore, Ken (1998). _Social Policy: an Introduction_. Â 
  * Althaus, Catherine; Bridgman, Peter; Davis, Glyn (2007). _The Australian Policy Handbook_ (4th ed.). Sydney: Allen  & Unwin.Â 
  * MÃ¼ller, Pierre; Surel, Yves (1998). _L'analyse des politiques publiques_ (in French). Paris: Montchrestien. Â 
  * Paquette, Laure (2002). _Analyzing National and International Policy_. Rowman Littlefield. Â 
  * Howard, Cosmo. "The Policy Cycle: a Model of Post-Machiavellian Policy Making?" The Australian Journal of Public Administration, September 2005.
  * Jenkins, William (1978). _Policy Analysis: A Political and Organizational Perspective_. London: Martin Robertson. Â 
  * Lowi, Theodore J.; Bauer, Raymond A.; De Sola Pool, Ithiel; Dexter, Lewis A. (1964). "American Business, Public Policy, Case-Studies, and Political Theory". _World Politics_. Cambridge University Press. **16** (4): 687â713. doi:10.2307/2009452. JSTORÂ 2009452. Â 
  * Lowi, Theodore J. (1972). "Four Systems of Policy, Politics, and Choice". _Public Administration Review_. American Society for Public Administration. **32** (4): 298â310. doi:10.2307/974990. JSTORÂ 974990. Â 
  * Feltus, Christophe (2008). "Preliminary Literature Review of Policy Engineering Methods - Toward Responsibility Concept". Proceeding of 3rd international conference on information and communication technologiesÂ : from theory to applications (ICTTA 08), Damascus, Syria; _Preliminary Literature Review of Policy Engineering Methods - Toward Responsibility Concept_. Â  External link in `|publisher=` (help)
  * Lowi, Theodore J. (1985). "The State in Politics". In Noll, Roger G. (ed.). _Regulatory Policy and the social Sciences_. Berkeley: University of California Press. pp. Â 67â110.Â CS1 maint: Extra text: editors list (link)
  * Spitzer, Robert J. (June 1987). "Promoting Policy Theory: Revising the Arenas of Power". _Policy Studies Journal_. **15** (4): 675â689. doi:10.1111/j.1541-0072.1987.tb00753.x. Â 
  * Kellow, Aynsley (Summer 1988). "Promoting Elegance in Policy Theory: Simplifying Lowi's Arenas of Power". _Policy Studies Journal_. **16** (4): 713â724. doi:10.1111/j.1541-0072.1988.tb00680.x. Â 
  * Heckathorn, Douglas D.; Maser, Steven M. (1990). "The Contractual Architecture of Public Policy: A Critical Reconstruction of Lowi's Typology". _The Journal of Politics_. Cambridge University Press. **52** (4): 1101â1123. doi:10.2307/2131684. JSTORÂ 2131684. Â 
  * Smith, K. B. (2002). "Typologies, Taxonomies, and the Benefits of Policy Classification". _Policy Studies Journal_. **30** (3): 379â395. doi:10.1111/j.1541-0072.2002.tb02153.x. Â 
  * Greenberg, George D.; et al. (December 1977). "Developing Public Policy Theory: Perspectives from Empirical Research". _American Political Science Review_. American Political Science Association. **71** (4): 1532â1543. doi:10.2307/1961494. JSTORÂ 1961494. Â 
  * Dye, Thomas R. (1976). _Policy Analysis_. University of Alabama Press. Â 

  * Stone, Diane."Global Public Policy, Transnational Policy Communities and their Networks", _Journal of Policy Sciences_ , 2008

## Further reading[edit]

  * K. Cummins, Linda (2011). _Policy Practice for Social Workers: New Strategies for a New Era_. Pearson. ISBNÂ 9780205022441. Â 
  * Hicks, Daniel L.; Hicks, Joan Hamory; Maldonado, Beatriz (January 2016). "Women as policy makers and donors: female legislators and foreign aid". _European Journal of Political Economy_. Elsevier. **41** : 46â60. doi:10.1016/j.ejpoleco.2015.10.007.Â 

## External links[edit]

| Wikiquote has quotations related to: _**Policy**_  
---|---  
|  Look up _**policy**_ in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.  
---|---  
  
  * Policy institutes at Curlie (based on DMOZ)
  * Policy Studies Organization

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Policy&oldid=815052491"

Categories:

  * Government
  * Policy
  * Politics by issue

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from September 2011
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from February 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from February 2010
  * CS1 French-language sources (fr)
  * CS1 errors: external links
  * CS1 maint: Extra text: editors list
  * Articles with DMOZ links

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * BÃ¢n-lÃ¢m-gÃº
  * ChiShona
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * EspaÃ±ol
  * ÙØ§Ø±Ø³Û
  * íêµ­ì´
  * à¤¹à¤¿à¤¨à¥à¤¦à¥
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * ×¢××¨××ª
  * Nederlands
  * à¤¨à¥à¤ªà¤¾à¤² à¤­à¤¾à¤·à¤¾
  * æ¥æ¬èª
  * Norsk
  * Ð ÑÑÑÐºÐ¸Ð¹
  * à·à·à¶à·à¶½
  * Ø³ÙÚÙ
  * Svenska
  * Ø§Ø±Ø¯Ù
  * Tiáº¿ng Viá»t
  * ××Ö´×××©
  * ä¸­æ

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 12 December 2017, at 13:38.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. WikipediaÂ® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[Â±%]: Percent change
  *[%Â±]: Percent change

