

# Pratt Institute

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Pratt Institute  
---  
Motto | Be true to your work, and your work will be true to you.  
Type | Private  
Established | 1887  
Endowment | $123 million[1]  
Chairman | Bruce Gitlin  
President |

Kirk E. Pillow (interim)

Frances Bronet (president-elect) https://www.pratt.edu/the-institute
/president-elect/  
Provost | Donna Heiland (acting)  
  
Academic staff

| 1,049  
Undergraduates | 3,076  
Postgraduates | 1,612  
Location | Brooklyn, New York, United States  
Campus | Urban  
25 acres (10 hectares)  
Fight Song | "Black and Yellow"  
Colors | Black and cadmium yellow  
Athletics | NCAA Division III, Hudson Valley Athletic Conference  
Mascot | The Cannoneer  
Website | www.pratt.edu  
  
**Pratt Institute** is a private, nonsectarian, non-profit institution of
higher learning located in the Clinton Hill neighborhood of Brooklyn, New
York, United States, with a satellite campus located at 14th Street in
Manhattan and an extension campus in Utica, New York (Pratt MWP).[2] The
school originated in 1887 with programs primarily in engineering,
architecture, and fine arts.[3] Comprising six schools, the Institute is
primarily known for its highly ranked programs in architecture, interior
design, and industrial design, and offers both undergraduate and Master's
degree programs in a variety of fields, with a strong focus on research.[4]

_U.S. News & World Report_ lists Pratt as one of the top 20 colleges in the
Regional Universities North category.[5] _Princeton Review_ recognizes Pratt
as being one of the best colleges in the northeast,[6] making it among the top
25% of all four-year colleges and universities in the United States.[7]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Inception
    * 1.2 Early years
    * 1.3 Degree-granting status and increase in enrollment
    * 1.4 Campus reorganization
    * 1.5 Enrollment decline and financial issues
    * 1.6 Revitalization and growth
    * 1.7 List of presidents
  * 2 Campus
  * 3 Buildings
    * 3.1 Historic sites
    * 3.2 Residence Halls
    * 3.3 Transportation
  * 4 Pratt Manhattan
  * 5 Academics
    * 5.1 Schools and academic divisions
      * 5.1.1 Former schools
    * 5.2 Joint degree programs
    * 5.3 Rankings and accreditation
    * 5.4 Demographics
    * 5.5 Tuition
    * 5.6 Notable faculty
  * 6 Student life
    * 6.1 Athletics
    * 6.2 Student media
    * 6.3 Fraternities and sororities
  * 7 In popular culture
  * 8 Notable alumni
    * 8.1 Science, technology, and engineering
    * 8.2 Architecture
    * 8.3 Government, politics, and social issues
    * 8.4 Entertainment and communications
    * 8.5 Art and design
    * 8.6 Sports
  * 9 References
  * 10 External links

## History[edit]

### Inception[edit]

Charles Pratt, founder of Pratt Institute

Pratt Institute was founded in 1887 by American industrialist Charles Pratt,
who was a successful businessman and oil tycoon and was one of the wealthiest
men in the history of Brooklyn. Pratt was an early pioneer of the oil industry
in the United States and was the founder of Astral Oil Works based in the
Greenpoint section of Brooklyn which was a leader in replacing whale oil with
petroleum or natural oil. In 1867, Pratt established Charles Pratt and
Company. In 1874, Pratt’s companies were purchased by John D. Rockefeller and
became part of his Standard Oil trust while Pratt continued to run the
companies himself.

Pratt, an advocate of education, wanted to provide the opportunity for working
men and women to better their lives through education. Even though Pratt never
had the opportunity to go to college himself, he wanted to create an
affordable college accessible to the working class. In 1884, Pratt began
purchasing parcels of land in his affluent home town of Clinton Hill for the
intention of opening a school. The school would end up being built only two
blocks from Charles Pratt’s residence on Clinton Avenue.

From his fortunes with Astral Oil and Charles Pratt and Company, in 1886 he
endowed and founded Pratt Institute. In May 1887, the New York State
Legislature granted Charles Pratt a charter to open the school; on October 17,
1887, the Institute opened to 12 students in the Main Hall. Tuition was $4 per
class per term (approximately equivalent to $106.6 in 2016).[8] The college
was one of the first in the country open to all people, regardless of class,
color, and gender. In the early years, the Institute’s mission was to offer
education to those who never had it offered to them before. Pratt sought to
teach people skills that would allow them to be successful and work their way
up the economic ladder. Specifically, many programs were tailored for the
growing need to train industrial workers in the changing economy with training
in design and engineering. Early programs sought to teach students a variety
of subjects such as architectural engineering, mechanics, dressmaking, and
furniture making. Graduates of the school were taught to become engineers,
mechanics, and technicians. Drawing, whether freehand, mechanical, or
architectural, thought of as being a universal language, united such diverse
programs and thus all programs in the school had a strong foundation in
drawing. In addition, the curriculum at the Institute was to be complemented
by a large Liberal Arts curriculum. Students studied subjects such as history,
mathematics, physics, and literature in order to better understand the world
in which they will be working in, which is still used in Pratt's
curriculum.[8]

### Early years[edit]

Enrollment grew steadily since inception. Six months after inception the
school had an enrollment of nearly 600 students. By the first anniversary of
the school there were 1,000 students in attendance. In five years time the
school had nearly 4,000 students.[8] In 1888 _Scientific American_ said of the
school that “it is undoubtedly the most important enterprise of its kind in
this country, if not in the world”.[8] Andrew Carnegie even visited Pratt for
inspiration and used the school as a model in developing Carnegie Technical
Schools, now Carnegie Mellon University.[9] At the first Founders Day
celebration in 1888, Charles Pratt addressed what would become the school’s
motto: “be true to your work and your work will be true to you” meaning that
students should educate and develop themselves diligently and go out into the
world working hard, giving all of themselves.

Pratt Institute Kindergarten, 1905

As public interest grew in the school and demand increased the school began
adding new programs including the Pratt High School, Library School, Music
Department, and Department of Commerce.[10] Because of the overwhelming
popularity of the Department of Commerce, the department broke off from the
main Institute and formed its own school, under the guidance of Norman P.
Heffley, personal secretary to Charles Pratt.[11][12] **The Heffley School of
Commerce** , the former Pratt Department of Commerce, originally having shared
facilities with Pratt evolved into what is now Brooklyn Law School.[13]

In 1891, the Institute’s founder and first president, Charles Pratt, died and
his eldest son, Charles Millard Pratt, assumed responsibility of president for
the school. In 1893, Charles Pratt’s other son, Frederic B. Pratt, was elected
President of Pratt Institute taking over from his elder brother. Because
Charles Pratt Snr. died so soon after the college was founded, Frederic Pratt
is ascribed with guiding the college through its early decades.[14] Under the
direction of Pratt’s sons, the Institute was able to thrive both financially
and critically with many new construction projects and course offerings. By
1892, the number of students enrolled was 3,900. In 1897 the most popular
major for students was domestic arts.[15]

In 1896, the school opened its monumental Victorian-Renaissance Revival
library with interiors designed by the Tiffany Decorating and Glass Company
and sprawling gardens outside the library. The library was available not just
for students but to the general public as well. The Pratt Institute Library
was the first and only public library in Brooklyn for nearly 15 years.
Additionally, the library served as a working classroom for the training of
librarians and is cited as one of the first schools of Library science. The
Pratt Institute Library also made available the first reading room for
children in all of New York City.[16]

By the turn of the century, The School of Science and Technology had become
Pratt's most prestigious and well known school comprised most of the school’s
enrollment[17][18] Across from East Building on Grand Avenue, the Institute
constructed a new quad dedicated specifically for the engineering school.
Constructed over a period of a quarter of a century, the Chemistry, Machinery,
and Engineering buildings were constructed in the same architecture style,
unifying all disciplines offered by the School. Pratt also had a large variety
of courses dedicated specifically for women during this time. Some of the 25
courses women could partake in included library science, nursing, home
economics, and fashion.[17]

By 1910, all of the departments of the Institute were organized as individual
schools including the Library School, School of Domestic Science, School of
Fine and Applied Arts, and the School of Science and Technology.[17]

### Degree-granting status and increase in enrollment[edit]

World War One Memorial in the Rose Garden

As World War I faced the nation in 1914, Pratt partnered with the United
States Government to aid in the war effort. The School of Science and
Technology had its own Student Army Training Corps which taught enlistees
engineering skills needed for the war. Students designed aircraft used in the
war and trained operators. In 1927, mechanical engineering alumnus Donald A.
Hall designed the _Spirit of Saint Louis_ , used by Charles Lindbergh in the
world's first transatlantic flight.[19]

By the 1938 most programs at the school began offering four-year Bachelor of
Science degrees and Pratt transformed itself from being a technical school to
a rigorous college .[20] By granting bachelor's degrees, Pratt had to revise
its curriculum from being a two-year school to now being a four-year college.
The changes also reflected New York State requirements for granting degrees
and stricter government and professional licensing regulations for graduates.
During this decade, the foundation program for all Art School students was
also founded.[17] In 1940 Pratt began granting graduate degrees.[20]

During World War II Pratt also helped in the war effort as it did during World
War I with the engineering school training servicemen before they were
deployed. Students helped to design camouflage for soldiers, buildings, and
weapons. Following the war, the school saw a large influx of veterans
enrolling as part of the GI Bill.

In the 1940s, the School of Science and Technology changed its name to the
School of Engineering and in 1946 established its own honor society with
mechanical engineering being the most popular major at all of Pratt.[15] In
1953, Francis H. Horn became the first President of Pratt who was not a member
of the Pratt family. Enrollment continue to climb throughout the decade and in
1948 the Institute reached an all-time high in attendance with 6,000
students.[15] By 1950, Pratt had become an accredited institution by the
Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools.[10] In 1954, the
architecture department split from the Engineering School to become its own
school.[17]

### Campus reorganization[edit]

DeKalb Avenue Gate of Enclosed Campus

As part of white flight in the 1950s and 1960s which affected the majority of
New York City the neighborhood of Clinton Hill began to see a transformation
from an upper-class, affluent, white community to one chiefly populated by
poor and working-class people of color. During this time, Pratt considered
moving its campus to more affluent Long Island or Manhattan and increase its
attractiveness but decided to stay at its original Brooklyn campus due to the
history and Charles Pratt's original mission.[17]

As part of Robert Moses' plan for urban renewal in New York City, Pratt’s
physical campus saw the greatest amount of change in its history. Prior to the
1950s, the school was located in separate buildings located on several public
streets. However, after Moses' clearance of many of the structures located
between Pratt's buildings, the land was given over to the school, and a true
campus was established. Ryerson Street, Grand Avenue, Steuben Street, and
Emerson Place ceased to allow automobile traffic, and the campus became
enclosed, forming the Grand Mall to connect the Institute's buildings.[21] The
elevated train running along Grand Avenue between the East Building/Student
Union and the Engineering Quad was dismantled. As a result of new real estate,
the school was able to build several new structures, all designed by the firm
of McKim, Mead & White, including men’s and women’s dormitories and a new
student union.[22] In addition, Moses' construction projects around the school
helped to build the School of Architecture. Research funds were granted to the
school to help discover new building techniques. By 1963, the urban planning
department formed the Pratt Center for Community Development in an attempt to
revitalize Pratt’s surrounding neighborhood and Brooklyn.[23]

### Enrollment decline and financial issues[edit]

In the 1970s and continuing well into the 1980s New York City and Brooklyn
still faced large amounts of crime and poverty and as a result enrollment fell
and the school began to face a budget deficit. Prospective students and
faculty felt uneasy about the safety of the campus and community. In 1974, the
men's basketball team came to the attention of national media outlets as Cyndi
Meserve joined the team becoming the first woman to play men's NCAA
basketball.[24][25] Students earning architecture degrees exceeded those who
were earning mechanical engineering degrees in 1975 and architecture degrees
became the most popular degree at Pratt, a trend that still exists.[15] In
anticipation of the Institute’s centennial anniversary in 1987, several
capital improvements were made to the campus trying to restore the condition
of many of the dilapidated buildings. The Grand Mall was re-landscaped with
new plantings, brick pathways, and lighting and the Newman Amphitheater was
built in 1988 in celebration of the hundredth anniversary. President
Richardson Pratt Jr. retired in 1990 after nearly twenty years of serving as
president, becoming the last president to be a descendent of founder Charles
Pratt.

By 1993, Thomas F. Schutte was appointed as president and has since become the
longest standing president overseeing the Institute not a part of the Pratt
family. In the same year, Pratt controversially closed its School of
Engineering, an integral part of founder Charles Pratt’s long term vision for
the school. Historically, the school was Pratt’s most successful school and
many associated the school with its engineering program.[17] In response to
the Institute-wide decrease in enrollment and school-wide budget issues,
closing the School of Engineering was thought of as being the only feasible
option to keep the school’s other programs afloat and to address the budget.
Students in the Engineering program were transferred to Polytechnic Institute
of New York University while tenured professors were relocated to the School
of Architecture and the science and math departments in the School of Liberal
Arts and Sciences.[26]

### Revitalization and growth[edit]

As a result of closing the costly School of Engineering, the school was able
to get out of debt and on the track to financial success. Funds were allocated
for campus-wide beautification projects and restoration and modernization of
historic buildings, starting with Memorial Hall "Pratt Institute," Treasures
of New York, https://www.pbs.org/video/treasures-new-york-treasures-new-york-
pratt-institute/. Part of the beautification projects included adding the
Pratt Institute Sculpture Park in 1999 where contemporary art sculptures are
placed throughout the campus lawns and gardens, making it the largest
contemporary sculpture park in New York City.[27] Pratt also began a
partnership with Munson-Williams-Proctor and Delaware College of Art and
Design for art students to study for two years at either campus and finish
their degrees at Pratt’s School of Art and Design in Brooklyn. During the
1990s the school was able to increase enrollment by twenty-five percent, from
approximately 3,000 students in 1990 to 4,000 students in 2000.[17]

Vincent A. Stabile, a 1940 graduate of the School of Engineering, donated
about $13 million to Pratt, the largest donation made by any alumnus in the
college’s history,[17] with the request to President Schutte that the donation
be used to reopen the School of Engineering. President Schutte rejected Mr.
Stabile’s request but instead allocated the funds to construct a new residence
hall named in the donor’s honor. From the mid-1980s to the 2000s Pratt
experienced the transition from being mainly a commuter school to become a
residential school through the construction of new residence halls Cannoneer
Court, Pantas Hall, and Stabile Hall.

### List of presidents[edit]

  1. Charles Pratt (1830–1891), president from 1887 to 1891
  2. Charles Millard Pratt (1855–1935), 1891–1893
  3. Frederic B. Pratt (1865–1945), 1893–1937
  4. Charles Pratt (1892–?), 1937–1953
  5. Francis H. Horn, 1953–1957
  6. Robert Fisher Oxnam (1915–1974), 1957–1960
  7. James B. Donovan (1916–1970), 1968–1970
  8. Henry Saltzman, 1970-1972
  9. Richardson Pratt Jr. (1923–2001) (grandson of Charles Millard Pratt and great-grandson of Charles Pratt), 1972–1990
  10. Warren F. Ilchman (1933–), 1990–1993
  11. Thomas F. Schutte (1936–), 1993–2017
  12. Kirk E. Pillow (interim), 2017-present

## Campus[edit]

Cannon Court

Main Building as viewed from Rose Garden

Pratt Institute’s main campus is located on a historic, award-winning,[28]
enclosed 25-acre (100,000 m2) campus located in the Clinton Hill neighborhood
in Brooklyn, 2 miles from Downtown Brooklyn and 3 miles from Lower Manhattan.
Midtown Manhattan is just 5 miles from the campus.

The campus is accessible by two public entrances, both of which close in the
evening hours and are guarded by security 24 hours a day. The main gate
located at Willoughby Avenue on the north side of campus is accessible for
pedestrians and vehicles while the secondary pedestrian-only gate located at
the corner of Hall Street and DeKalb Avenue at the southwest part of campus is
convenient for commuters and for students to get to Higgins Hall. In addition,
there are two other swipe card access gates available only for student use.
The campus is very park-like and fully landscaped and provides a stark
contrast to the urban neighborhood which surrounds the school.

The four main areas of the campus include the Library Rose Garden, Cannon
Court, Newman Mall and Amphitheater, and the Engineering Quad:

  * The historically significant **Rose Garden** is located directly north of the library and was built as a part of the library acting as a public park. At the center of the garden is a 1926 World War I memorial flagpole detailed with eagles, male, and female busts.[29]
  * The **Cannon Court** is located directly south of the library and serves as the main entrance from the Hall Street gate. A central feature of the court is a large bronze Spanish cannon from 1720 originally from Seville, Spain and brought to Pratt from Morro Castle in Havana, Cuba in 1899.[22] Trees and meandering pathways lead to the library and Newman Mall.
  * The **Newman Mall** takes up the center of the campus with many of the academic buildings alongside the mall. The mall is characterized by brick pathways with mature trees lining a central lawn. To the north of the mall is a small amphitheater, designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill.[30]
  * The **Engineering Quadrangle** , which is recognized as a historic landmark, is located north of the Newman Mall toward the eastern side of campus with the Chemistry, Machinery, and Engineering buildings enclosing the quad which has terraced landscaping and gardens with many mature trees.

The entire campus is open to the public as park space during the daytime.
Throughout the campus, many contemporary sculptures fill the gardens and
landscape, making the campus home to the largest sculpture park in New York
City.[27] The sculptures are loaned to Pratt and are changed on a rotating
basis. Public Art Review recognized the campus as having one of the 10 best
college and university art collections in the country.[31]

## Buildings[edit]

Library

Memorial Hall

East Hall

Engineering Building

Chemistry Building

Pratt is home to a diverse collection of buildings composed of several
architectural styles. Most of the buildings at the school were built before
World War II in the style of Romanesque Revival, Victorian, and Neoclassical
styles and were designed by prominent nineteenth and twentieth century
architects. After the war, Pratt began building more contemporary styled
buildings.

In 2011, _Architectural Digest_ named Pratt as being one of the top ten most
architecturally significant college campuses in the country, for its seamless
collection of buildings ranging from since the 1800s.[28]

The Main Building, East Hall Building, and Student Union are all located
adjacent to one another and make up a complex of the original buildings, all
built specifically for the Institute in 1887:

  * Located at the north-central part of campus, the **Main Building** is a six-story Romanesque Revival brick building designed by Lamb and Rich and was the first building to open at the school.[10] The roof features an iconic clock tower, which overlooks the Rose Garden. The building houses administrative offices, classrooms, and art studios for the Arts Department of the School of Art and Design. In February 2013 a fire erupted throughout the top floors of the building, destroying much of the interior structure and students work.[32]
  * **East Hall** is located directly behind Main Hall and faces Grand Walk. Designed by William Windrim, a main feature of the brick building is the large smokestack which served the Institute’s power generation plant. Within the Hall are a variety of services for students including Career Services, Student Activities, International Student Affairs, and the Pratt Chapel. Located in the lower level of the building is Pratt’s continuously operating, privately owned, steam-powered electrical generating plant built originally to serve the power needs of the school. In 1977 the facility was recognized by the American Society of Mechanical Engineers and named a National Mechanical Engineering Landmark.[33] The plant, located in the basement is available for public viewing from a two-story balcony.
  * The **Student Union** , by architect William Tubby, was originally built as the Trade School building but soon after completion was completely remodeled as the Student Union complete with gymnasium and swimming pool. In 1982 the building was renovated again as the new Student Union.[22] All three buildings wrap around an interior courtyard which connects out to the Newman Mall and Library Rose Garden. The centerpiece of the courtyard is a 17th-century Italian marble well-head fountain purchased by the Pratt family in 1900.[22]

Other structures include:

  * **South Hall** , located along Reyerson Walk to the direct south of Main Building, was finished in 1892 by William Tubby and was built as the Pratt High School.[34] When the high school closed near the turn-of-the-century, the building was used for the School of Domestic Arts and Sciences. The building is now home to classrooms, studios, and offices for programs in the Department of Fine Arts, part of the School of Art and Design.
  * **Pratt Institute Library** , which was opened in 1888 to serve students and the general public as well, became the first free Public Library in Brooklyn. The architect of the building was William Tubby of Brooklyn. The decoration in the building was done by the Tiffany Glass and Decorating Company.
  * The **Chemistry** , **Machinery** , and **Engineering Buildings** are located across from Grand Walk and East Building, which are clustered around the Engineering Quad’s lawn and gardens. They were built in phases between 1908 and 1928 and designed by architecture firm Howells & Stokes .[10] These buildings originally housed courses for Pratt’s School of Engineering until it was dismantled in 1993. The machinery building houses, a Print lab, Metal Shop, Ceramics Studios and WoodShop. The second floor of the Engineering building now houses Pratt’s largest computer lab on campus, with several classrooms of Mac and PC workstations and a collection of scanners, printers, and plotters. A furniture shop and Pratt's Center for Sustainable Design Strategies bustle in the basement.
  * The school’s auditorium, **Memorial Hall** , was built in 1927 with John Mead Howells serving as the architect. It is located across from the Rose Garden along Reyerson Walk, between the Main Building and North Hall.
  * Built as part of the urban renewal project led by Robert Moses, **North Hall** is located directly north of Memorial Hall and was designed by McKim, Mead, and White in 1958.[22] The building houses Pratt’s Main cafeteria and the school’s bank. Classrooms for the School of Liberal Arts and Sciences are located on the upper levels of the building.
  * **DeKalb Hall** and the **Information Science Center** were also designed by McKim, Mead, and White earlier in 1955. They originally served as men’s and women’s dormitories respectively until Pratt acquired Willoughby Hall.[22] After the acquisition of Willoughby, the buildings were remodeled to serve classroom and administrative needs. DeKalb Hall, located to the far west of campus and south of the Library and Cannon Court, is home to administrative offices. The Information Science Center is also located to the far west of campus, but north of the Library and Rose Garden, which was home to the School of Information and Library Science.
  * The **Juliana Curran Terian Design Center** is made up of two separate wings, _Steuben Hall_ to the east and _Pratt Studios_ west, which hold all of Pratt’s design programs. Located at the southern edge of the campus between Pantas Hall and the Athletics and Recreation Center, this building is home to the Interior Design, Industrial Design, Communication Design, and Fashion Design Departments, as well as the givetake art supply recycling initiative. At the center of the building there is a small courtyard. Originally the center was two separate buildings that were acquired by Pratt in 1962 and 1970, respectively.[10] The buildings were originally built around the turn-of-the-century and served as factories until Pratt acquired them. A new glass and metal entry pavilion, named in honor of architecture alumni and donor Juliana Curran Terian, was constructed in 2007[35] and was designed to the two original, separate, brick buildings. The lead architect for the project was the School of Architecture's Dean, Thomas Hanrahan.[35]
  * **Myrtle Hall** is Pratt’s newest building, having opened in 2010. The building, located one block north of campus, was designed by Pratt Institute School of Architecture alumnus Jack Esterson AIA of the New York City architecture and engineering firm WASA/Studio A, and has achieved LEED Gold Certification. The building houses Student Services (registrar, bursar, and financial aid), Admissions, the Pratt Center for Community Development, and the Digital Art Center.
  * The **Caroline Ladd Pratt House** is owned by the school. It is used as the college president’s mansion and for gala events.[36] It was completed in 1898 and designed by architects Babb, Cook, and Willard for Frederic B. Pratt, the Institute’s third president, the son of Charles Pratt (and family). It is located two blocks west of the school on Clinton Avenue, near the other Pratt family mansions.
  * **Higgins Hall** , located one block south of the main campus, houses the entire School of Architecture with the exception of Construction Management programs. The historic Romanesque Revival landmark building with a contemporary center wing houses the school’s Administrative Offices, computer labs, student classrooms and laboratories, a lecture hall, a small café, and the Hazel and Robert H. Siegel Gallery. The building was originally built for the prestigious Adelphi Academy, now Adelphi University in phases from 1868 through 1890 by Mundell and Teckritz and Charles C. Haight. Charles Pratt also partially funded construction of the building as part of his philanthropic efforts.[37] The building was given to Pratt Institute in 1965 by the wife of John Higgins, architect and alumni of Adelphi Academy. The School of Architecture was relocated here.[38] In 1996, the building experienced a major fire, destroying the center wing of the building and severely damaging the northern and southern wings.[39] In 2005, the school replaced the center wing with a new sleek and contemporary glass structure, which linked historic brick northern and southern wings designed by Steven Holl, and incorporated complementary contrast to the original essence.[40] As part of the rebuilding of Higgins Hall, Rogers Marvel Architects restored and renovated the original nineteenth century wings to their former glory.[41]

### Historic sites[edit]  
  
---  
  
Pratt Institute Historic District  
  
U.S. National Register of Historic Places  
  
U.S. Historic district  
  
Show map of New York City

Show map of New York

Show map of the US  
  
Location | Roughly bounded by Hall St., Dekalb Ave., Willoughby St. and
Emerson Pl., Brooklyn, New York  
Coordinates | 40°41′28″N 73°57′50″W﻿ / ﻿40.69111°N 73.96389°W﻿ / 40.69111;
-73.96389Coordinates: 40°41′28″N 73°57′50″W﻿ / ﻿40.69111°N 73.96389°W﻿ /
40.69111; -73.96389  
Area | 9 acres (3.6 ha)  
Architect | Multiple  
Architectural style | Late 19th And 20th Century Revivals, Renaissance,
Romanesque  
NRHP reference # |

90001138

[42]  
Added to NRHP | March 23, 2005  
  
A number of Pratt Institute’s buildings and landscapes are historically
significant. The **Pratt Institute Historic District** is a national historic
district that comprises 10 contributing buildings built between 1885 and 1936.
Several buildings are recognized as being New York City Designated Landmarks.
It was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2005[42] and was
awarded the Getty Foundation Campus Heritage Grant.[43] Two buildings outside
the historic district, Higgins Hall and the Caroline Ladd Pratt House are also
listed on the historic register as being a part of the Clinton Hill Historic
District. The buildings and structures listed on the U.S. National Register of
Historic Places for their architectural or historical significance are:[10]

  * Caroline Ladd Pratt House
  * Chemistry Building
  * Children’s Portico
  * East Hall
  * Engineering Building

|  |

  * Engineering Quadrangle
  * Higgins Hall
  * Machinery Building
  * Main Building
  * Main Building Courtyard
  * Memorial Hall

|  |

  * Pratt Institute Library
  * Pratt Institute Library Rose Garden
  * South Hall
  * Student Union

  
---|---|---|---|---  
  
### Residence Halls[edit]

Pratt, a residential campus, offers seven different residence options for its
students. All residence hall students are provided with a bed (twin extra-
long), a desk, a chair and a dresser. Students residing in a dorm on campus
are required to be on a mandatory meal plan (Stabile, Cannoneer, ELJ, and
Pantas), while those off campus are able to sign up for an optional meal plan
(Willoughby and Grand Avenue). Cannoneer Court, Leo J. Pantas Hall, and
Vincent A. Stabile Hall are the primary freshman dorms. In total, 51 percent
of undergraduate students reside on campus while 92 percent of incoming
freshmen students reside on campus.[44] Pratt offers the following residence
halls for students to choose from:

  * **Cannoneer Court** , was designed by architecture firm Skidmore, Owings and Merrill in 1986 and was constructed using modular construction. Each individual dorm room was constructed off-site and then set into place like building blocks. This is Pratt’s only traditional, corridor-style residence hall and houses students in double rooms. Bathrooms are communal. The building has a lounge and study/work area as well as a garden courtyard. The rooms are air-conditioned and carpeted. Cannoneer Court is primarily a freshman residence hall.
  * **Esther Lloyd-Jones Hall** is named for a trendsetter in modern American higher education.[45] The building was originally a private apartment building built in 1921 but was acquired by Pratt in 1964 as use for dormitories. ELJH accommodates students single and double rooms in apartment-style accommodations. ELJH is occupied primarily by upperclassmen continuing students.
  * **Grand Avenue Residence** is home to new and continuing graduate students. The building can accommodate 50 students in efficiency apartments (double and single) and private single rooms within two- and three-bedroom apartments. A double-efficiency apartment is two students sharing a one-room apartment (with kitchen and bath). A single-efficiency apartment is one student in a private one-room apartment with kitchen and bath. A shared single is two or more students, each with its own private bedroom, sharing kitchen, bath, and living room. The building is located one block from campus. Each living room is furnished with a sofa, club chair, coffee table, kitchen table, and chairs.
  * **Leo J. Pantas Hall** was opened in 1987 and designed by Skidmore, Owings and Merrill and sits centrally located on campus. Students live in four-person suites, which consist of two double rooms (two people in each double room), and each suite has its own bathroom. Suites are single sex, but floors are co-ed. This building has no air conditioning. The building boasts a work/study rooms and communal lounges. The building was design in brick with a clock tower, echoing the style of original 1887 Main Building. Pantas is primarily a freshmen residence hall.

The historic Pratt Townhouses

  * **The Pratt Townhouses** are historic landmarks which were originally constructed from 1901 to 1910 in the colonial revival style to serve as faculty housing. The townhomes were designed by Hobart C. Walker. After being neglected for several years, Pratt is in the process of renovating the apartments to be used by upperclassmen.
  * **Vincent A. Stabile Hall** opened in the Fall of 1999 and designed by Pasanella+Klein, Stolzman+Berg Architects. Named for the donor and graduate of the Engineering School, it was designed for new undergraduate students. It houses 240 students in four-person suites. Each suite consists of two double rooms with a shared bath. There are kitchenettes located on each floor. Stabile is primarily a freshmen residence hall.
  * **Willoughby Hall** is a former private apartment building built as part of Robert Moses’ urban renewal projects surround Pratt, and is the largest residence hall. Built in 1957 by architect John Mead Howells, the 16-story building accommodates 800 undergraduate men and women. In addition to the standard furniture, all apartments have a kitchen table, stove, and refrigerator. All students are assigned to double, triple, or single spaces. The converted apartments consist of at least one double or triple that occupies the former living-room space of the apartment. The number of students residing in a given apartment ranges from two to six students, depending upon the size of the converted apartment—studio, one, two, or three bedroom.

###  Transportation[edit]

The Clinton-Washington Avenues subway station of the G train is close to
Pratt's Brooklyn campus

Pratt does not provide any official sponsored transportation options for its
students, but there are several public transportation options located directly
off Pratt's main campus.

The school is served by MTA New York City Bus routes with the B38 bus route
servicing the campus to the south with stations along DeKalb and Lafayette
Avenues and the B54 bus route serving the area north of the campus along
Myrtle Avenue.[46] In addition, the New York City Subway's G train has a
station located at the intersection of Washington and Lafayette Avenues. The
Clinton–Washington Avenues station (IND Crosstown Line) is located directly
across the street from Higgins Hall. In addition, the C train has an entrance
to Clinton–Washington Avenues station (IND Fulton Street Line) four blocks
south of the Hall Gate entrance and three blocks south of Higgins Hall.[47]

New York City's public bike-share program, Citi Bike, has stations nearby at
Lafayette Avenue and Saint James Place; at Hall Street and Willoughby Avenue;
and at Emerson Place and Myrtle Avenue.[48]

The Long Island Rail Road at Atlantic Terminal, is located a short walk from
the campus. Pratt participates in New Jersey Transit’s University Partnership
Program where students can receive a twenty-five percent discount on monthly
passes based out of Penn Station in Manhattan.[49]

## Pratt Manhattan[edit]

Pratt Manhattan

The **Pratt Manhattan** campus, located at 144 West 14th Street, between 6th
and 7th Avenue, is home to Pratt's associate degrees programs in graphic
design, illustration, and digital design and interactive media, an
undergraduate program in construction management, several of Pratt's graduate
programs including the master's degrees in the School of Information, Historic
Preservation, Facilities management, Design Management, Arts and Cultural
Management, and the School of Continuing and Professional Studies which offers
an array of non-credit Certificate Programs, including certificates in Digital
Design, Advanced Perfumery among others. This seven story historic building
was acquired by Pratt in 2000. The Institute restored the building's exterior
to its original facade highlighting its decorative architectural and design
elements and renovated the interior to feature its high ceilings and wood
beams. A lovely staircase from the building's lobby leads to the Pratt
Manhattan Gallery offering a rich array of shows from fine art and sculpture
to fashion.

This new building houses the School for Information, the Graduate Programs in
Communications and Package Design, Design Management, Arts and cultural
Management, the two-year Associate Degree Programs in Digital Design, Graphic
Design and Illustration, and the Manhattan office of the School of Continuing
and Professional Studies. The modern building has many resources like a
library, computer lab and meeting spaces.

In 1974, the New York Phoenix School of Design, formerly the New York School
of Applied Design for Women and the Phoenix Art Institute, merged with the
Pratt Institute to form the Pratt-New York Phoenix School of Design, which
offered three-year certificate programs in art and design at least into the
late 1970s. It is located in the landmark New York School of Applied Design
Building at 160th Lexington Avenue, at the northwest corner of Lexington and
30th Avenue.[50] At this time, Manhattan had long been the epicenter of
publishing design during the latter-twentieth century. This new commercial-
art-dedicated satellite was modeled to apply intensely concentrated vocational
training in graphic design, illustration, package design, and textile design.
Its faculty was largely composed of Manhattan's working professionals, who
themselves had achieved the level of skill necessary to meet the city's
global-defining standards. Magazines, books, music albums, movie posters,
print and television advertisements and packaging for all forms of retail
products were the intended goals for its graduates, as well as Manhattan's
omnipresent fashion industry. In addition, the below-ground space in the
school was converted into a state of the art printmaking facility, teaching
artist-created lithography, silk screening and engraving.

In 2010 Pratt acquired the entire third floor of a building on West 18th
Street to serve as a studio space for its new MFA program in Communications
Design.

## Academics[edit]

### Schools and academic divisions[edit]

Pratt Institute is divided into 5 schools and more than 28 departments and
divisions offering over 22 undergraduate majors and 25 graduate majors.

Hall Street pedestrian entrance

The schools include:

  * **School of Architecture**
    * Department of Undergraduate Architecture
    * Department of Graduate Architecture
    * Department of Construction Management
    * Department of Facilities Management
    * Department of Graduate Architecture and Urban Design
    * Graduate Center for Planning and the Environment
  * **School of Art and Design**
    * Department of Foundation Art
    * Department of Art and Design Education
    * Department of Creative Arts Therapy
    * Department of Arts and Cultural Management
    * Department of Communications Design
    * Department of Graduate Communications/Packaging Design
    * Department of Digital Arts
    * Department of Design Management
    * Department of Fashion Design
    * Department of Film and Video
    * Department of Fine Arts
    * Department of the History of Art and Design
    * Department of Industrial Design
    * Department of Interior Design
    * Department of Media Arts
    * Associate Degree Programs
  * **School of Liberal Arts and Sciences**
    * Department of English and Humanities
    * Critical and Visual Studies
    * Intensive English Program
    * Department of Math and Science
    * Department of Social Science and Cultural Studies
    * Writing Program
  * **School of Information** (Pratt has the oldest continuously accredited library-science program in the United States.)
  * **Center for Continuing Education and Professional Studies**

####  Former schools[edit]

  * School of Domestic Arts and Sciences
  * School of Engineering

### Joint degree programs[edit]

Pratt Institute offers the following joint degree programs:[51]

  * J.D./Master in City and Regional Planning: Brooklyn Law School and Pratt Institute jointly sponsor a program leading to the degrees of Juris Doctor (J.D.) and Master of Science (M.S.) in City and Regional Planning.
  * LL.M./Master in Library and Information Science: Brooklyn Law School and Pratt Institute jointly sponsor a dual degree program for those who have already earned a J.D. The program leads to a M.S.L.I.S. and LL.M. in Information Law and Society.

### Rankings and accreditation[edit]

**Rank** | **Year** | **Program** | **Ranked by** | **Source**  
---|---|---|---|---  
1 | 2013 | Interior Design | U.S. News & World Report | [52]  
3 | 2013 | Interior Design - Graduate | DesignIntelligence | [53]  
4 | 2013 | Interior Design - Undergraduate | DesignIntelligence | [53]  
5 | 2013 | Industrial Design | U.S. News & World Report | [54]  
2 | 2013 | Industrial Design - Graduate | DesignIntelligence | [53]  
3 | 2013 | Industrial Design - Undergraduate | DesignIntelligence | [53]  
9 | 2015 | Architecture - Undergraduate | DesignIntelligence | [55]  
11 | 2014 | Architecture - Undergraduate | DesignIntelligence | [56]  
10 | 2013 | Architecture | Archifund | [57]  
10 | 2013 | Architecture | GA | [57]  
11 | 2013 | Architecture - Undergraduate | DesignIntelligence | [53]  
6 | 2013 | City and Regional Planning | U.S. News & World Report | [58]  
3 | 2013 | Fashion Design | Fashionista Magazine | [59]  
7 | 2013 | Fashion Design | Huffington Post | [60]  
12 | 2013 | Graphic Design | U.S. News & World Report | [61] |  
11 | 2013 | Archives and Preservation | U.S. News & World Report | [62]  
  
In 2013, _U.S. News& World Report_ ranked Pratt Institute as being one of the
top 20 best colleges in the north.[63] In addition, _University Business_
ranked Pratt as being the number 10 college in the United States.[64]
_Princeton Review_ has named Pratt as being one of the best colleges in the
northeast,[6] making it among the top 25% of all four-year colleges and
universities in the United States.[7] Many of Pratt’s programs have been
ranked in the top-5 by _U.S. News & World Report_ including the interior
design and industrial design programs. The Bachelor of Architecture program
has been ranked as being in the top fifteen programs in the United States
consistently since 2000. _Bloomberg BusinessWeek_ ranked the school as being
one of the top 60 schools in the world to study design[65] while _Business
Insider_ said that the school is the 6th best school for design in the world,
above Cooper Union and New York University.[66]

_Kiplinger's Personal Finance_ also named Pratt as being one of the country’s
best values in private colleges and universities.[67] It was included as one
of the top values for academic quality and affordability out of more than 600
private institutions. However, in more recent years Pratt is no longer listed
in Kiplinger's Personal Finance annual ranking of best value schools.[67] In
addition, _Architectural Digest_ named the campus as being one of the top ten
most architecturally significant, along with institutions such as Harvard,
Princeton, and University of Virginia.[28]

Pratt Institute is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and
Schools and is authorized to award academic degrees by the State of New York,
following guidelines established by the New York State Department of
Education.[68]

The Bachelor of Architecture degree and the Master of Architecture degree at
the School of Architecture are accredited by the National Architectural
Accrediting Board.[69] The undergraduate Interior Design program is accredited
by the Council for Interior Design Accreditation.[70]

Graduate programs in Library and Information Science, Art Therapy, and Art
Education are all accredited by the Committee on Accreditation of the American
Library Association, Education Approval Board of the American Art Therapy
Association, and RATE respectively.[68] The School of Art and Design is one of
only forty-three schools part of the Association of Independent Colleges of
Art and Design.[71]

### Demographics[edit]

_Ethnic composition of student body_[72] |  Student Body | U.S. Census[73]  
---|---|---  
White (non-Hispanic) | 47.4% | 73.9%  
African American | 4.3% | 12.4%  
Asian American | 17% | 4.3%  
Native American | 0.3% | 0.8%  
Hispanic American (of any race) | 8.9% | 14.7%  
Two or more races, non-Hispanic | 2.8% | (N/A)  
International students | 19.2% | (N/A)  
  
Pratt Institute students, numbering 3,054 undergraduates and 1,612 graduates
in Fall 2012, come from more than 60 countries, and all 50 states.[74] The
ratio of women to men is 2:1, and 32 percent are graduate and professional
students. Minority populations constitute nearly half of the student body,
with 4.3 percent African-Americans, 8.9 percent Hispanics, 0.3 percent Native
American, and 17 percent Asian-Americans or Pacific Islanders.[72]

### Tuition[edit]

For the 2013–2014 academic year, annual undergraduate tuition is $41,226.[75]
For the 2013–2014 academic year, annual graduate tuition for School of Art and
Design and School of Architecture students is $35,304 for 24 credits, $26,478
for 18 credits, and $17,652 for 12 credits and for students in the School of
Library and Information Science is $28,638 for 24 credits, $21,276 for 18
credits, and $14,184 for 12 credits. For the 2012–2013 academic year, annual
undergraduate tuition was $41,092. Over the past year, the annual
undergraduate tuition has risen by $134, or 0.3 percent.[76]

### Notable faculty[edit]

  * Joseph Barbera, animator and co-creator of the _Tom and Jerry_ series of animated shorts
  * Fritz Eichenberg, printmaker
  * Carla Gannis, artist
  * Philip Guston, painter
  * Eric Goldberg, film director and animator
  * Josh Koury, filmmaker
  * Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt, painter
  * Jacob Lawrence, painter
  * Jonathan Beller, film theorist
  * Manuel de Landa (adjunct), philosopher, artist
  * Eva Zeisel, ceramic artist/designer
  * Matthew Sharpe, author
  * Karen Bausman, architect
  * Jonas Coersmeier, architect
  * Nasser Sharify, father of international librarianship
  * Sibyl Moholy-Nagy, architectural and art historian
  * Philip Johnson, architect
  * Charles Warner, architect
  * Mario Naves, art critic

##  Student life[edit]

### Athletics[edit]

The Pratt Cannoneers, a founding member of the Hudson Valley Intercollegiate
Athletic Conference (USCAA), has varsity teams competing in men's basketball,
soccer, cross-country, indoor/outdoor track, and tennis; as well as women's
soccer, tennis, cross-country, indoor/outdoor track, and volleyball.

The men's basketball team has a storied tradition, including the 4th longest
collegiate basketball rivalry in the nation between Pratt and Polytechnic
University (Brooklyn, NY), with Pratt holding the overall record 78-59. The
Cannoneers also took home a national collegiate championship title in 1901,
and made four NAIA ('59, '60, '61, and '62) and two ECAC ('77,'79) post-season
appearances. Former players included Ed Mazria ('62), who was drafted by the
New York Knicks, and Anthony Heyward ('94), who currently tours with the And1
streetball team as "Half Man Half Amazing". Bernard Chang was formerly captain
of the Men's Varsity basketball team.

The men's soccer team won the NAIA tournament in 1959, edging Elizabethtown
College 4-3 in double overtime.

The women's cross-country team recently captured the 2006 HMWAC championship
title and coach Dalton Evans won "Coach of the Year" honors. The men's cross-
country team also has a championship title. The women's tennis team has won
three HVWAC titles, including an appearance in the ECAC tournament.

In addition, there are intramural activities schedules throughout the year,
ranging from individual (tennis and track & field) to team sports (soccer,
basketball, volleyball, and touch football). Two premier student intramurals
events include the fall classic Halloween Pratt Ratt Outdoor Obstacle Relay
Race and the annual Mr. & Ms. Pratt All Thatt Fitness & Artistic Expression
Pageant finale.

The Athletics Resource Center (A.R.C.) is home to the athletic department, and
features the largest clear-span space in Brooklyn. It also hosts the annual
Colgate Games, the nation's largest amateur track series for girls from
elementary school through college.[77]

The school's mascot, the Cannoneer, derives from the 19th century cannon that
stands prominently near the main gate to the campus. Cast in bronze in
Seville, Spain, the cannon bears the insignia of Philip V and was brought to
Pratt from the walls of Morro Castle in Havana, Cuba, in 1899.

### Student media[edit]

Pratt has several student media groups including a Film Club.

  * _The Prattler_ is Pratt's monthly student magazine.
  * _Static Fish_ , a comic book publication established over 20 years ago.
  * _Ubiquitous_ is Pratt's literary and arts magazine, published twice a year with reading event on campus per semester and also maintains a blog.[78]
  * Pratt's yearbook, _Prattonia_ , is designed by selected Pratt students.
  * _Pratt Radio_ , a student-run internet radio station broadcasts on the web. Originally broadcasting from a limited-range signal in the mid-1980s, the FCC stepped in and shut the operation down after students modified the broadcast tower, rendering Pratt Radio pirate radio.[ _citation needed_ ] The station later re-emerged in 2001 as a legitimate internet-only station.

### Fraternities and sororities[edit]

The Inter-Greek Council is responsible for all Greek life organizations at
Pratt Institute. In total, Pratt offers two fraternities for male students and
two sororities for female students:

  * Kappa Sigma
  * Pi Sigma Chi
  * Theta Phi Alpha
  * Sigma Sigma Sigma

## In popular culture[edit]

  * The music video of Billy Joel's song The Longest Time was filmed in its entirety at Pratt Institute in 1984.
  * Comic book artist Daniel Clowes's experience at the Pratt Institute provided the inspiration for his satirical comic _Art School Confidential_ , upon which the 2006 film of the same name was based.
  * Segments of the 1990 movie _Jacob's Ladder_ were filmed at Pratt, as well as scenes for the 2006 film _The Good Shepherd_ , directed by Robert De Niro. Some episodes of _Law& Order: Special Victims Unit_ were filmed on campus.
  * Pam Beesly from _The Office_ was accepted to Pratt in the episode "Goodbye, Toby." She studies for three months and leaves Pratt by the episode "Business Trip."
  * Liz Lee, star of the quasi-reality series _My Life as Liz_ currently attends Pratt and much of the filming of the second season was done on location.
  * In the first season of the TV show _Fringe_ , Pratt was used as a shooting location to stand in for Harvard University.[79]
  * Season 2 of _In Treatment_ features April, an architecture student at Pratt who has cancer.
  * The Art of Brooklyn Film Festival hosted film screenings in Pratt's theater in 2016 & 2017.

##  Notable alumni[edit]

### Science, technology, and engineering[edit]

  * Lloyd Espenschied
  * Joshua Davis
  * Bill Garity
  * Donald A. Hall
  * Irving Langmuir, recipient of the 1932 Nobel Prize in Chemistry.[80]
  * John M. Pierce
  * David Sarnoff

### Architecture[edit]

  * Martin L. Beck
  * Guy Bolton
  * Alfred Mosher Butts
  * Richard Foster
  * Henry Hohauser
  * Malcolm Holzman
  * Fay Kellogg
  * Johannes Knoops[81]
  * Edward Mazria
  * **Aryan Sarkar**
  * Alan Mruvka
  * George Ranalli
  * Wallace Rayfield
  * Mott B. Schmidt
  * Annabelle Selldorf
  * Peter L. Shelton
  * Robert Siegel
  * William Van Allen
  * **Bruce Wasersztein**
  * **David Robinson**
  * Lorenzo Snow Young
  * Peter Zumthor

###  Government, politics, and social issues[edit]

**Attorney**

  * Lynne Stewart

**Congressmen, government officials, and politicians**

  * Joseph Amenowode
  * William D. Byron
  * Ben Knight
  * George Lincoln Rockwell (left in his final year)
  * Elizabeth Crowley

**Religious leaders**

  * Charles E. Pont
  * William Howard Hoople

**Scholars**

  * Irvin Leigh Matus

**Librarians**

  * Mary Elizabeth Wood

**Crime**

  * Leo Frank (1902) factory manager; lynched in 1915 for the murder of a 13-year-old girl; subject of the musical Parade

###  Entertainment and communications[edit]

**Musicians**

  * Suzanne Fiol
  * John Flansburgh
  * Daniel Lopatin
  * Kim Schifino
  * Matt Johnson
  * Rob Zombie
  * James Reams
  * Lindsey Way

**Actors**

  * Harvey Fierstein
  * Terrence Howard
  * Martin Landau
  * Jeff Morrow
  * Robert Redford
  * Phoebe Robinson

**Directors/filmmakers**

  * Shawn Christensen
  * Bob Giraldi
  * Eric Goldberg
  * Hawley Pratt
  * Glenn Ficarra
  * John Requa
  * Robert Wilson

**Authors/screenwriters**

  * Gwendolyn B. Bennett
  * Mark Mathew Braunstein
  * Rich Burlew
  * Daniel Clowes
  * Bryan Collier
  * Sarah Louise Delany
  * Tomie dePaola
  * Glenn Ficarra
  * Pete Hamill
  * Norton Juster
  * Arnold Lobel
  * Marcus McLaurin
  * Laura Numeroff
  * John Peterson
  * Matthew Reinhart
  * John Requa
  * Michael Rosen
  * Elliot Tiber
  * Dante Tomaselli

**Communications**

  * George Lois
  * Earl Mayan
  * Paul Rand
  * Robert Riger
  * Louis Silverstein

###  Art and design[edit]

**Industrial Design**

  * William Boyer
  * Todd Bracher
  * Sharon Ajuba Douglas (designer)
  * Pres Bruning
  * Jason Freeny
  * Donald Genaro
  * Pelle Petterson
  * Charles Pollock (designer)

**Fashion Design**

  * Jeffrey Banks
  * Donna Chambers
  * Ben de Lisi
  * Betsey Johnson
  * Vera Maxwell
  * Norman Norell
  * Jeremy Scott

**Illustration**

  * Marshall Arisman
  * C. C. Beall
  * Daniel Clowes
  * Cheryl Hanna
  * Jacqui Morgan
  * Kadir Nelson
  * Roberto Parada
  * Robert Sabuda
  * Bernard Safran
  * Sam Savitt
  * Pamela Colman Smith
  * Leonard Starr
  * Samm Schwartz ( _Archie_ comics illustrator)
  * Chris Tsirgiotis

**Fine Arts**

  * Philomena Marano
  * Sergio Rossetti Morosini
  * David Nyzio
  * Denis Peterson
  * Lance Wyman
  * Terry Winters
  * William T. Williams
  * Kent Williams
  * Max Weber
  * Frank Verlizzo
  * Boaz Vaadia
  * Mario Robinson
  * Mickalene Thomas
  * Susan Louise Shatter
  * Joseph Szabo
  * Swoon
  * Therman Statom
  * Yoshi Sodeoka
  * David Silverman
  * Jean Shin
  * Rob Sheridan
  * Nat Mayer Shapiro
  * Jenny Scobel
  * Joan Semmel
  * Stefan Sagmeister
  * Susan L. Talbott
  * Willy Bo Richardson
  * Edna Reindel
  * David Ratcliff
  * Roxy Paine
  * Abraham Nathanson
  * Martin Nodell
  * Mort Meskin
  * Wendy McMurdo
  * Peter Max
  * Soraya Marcano
  * Robert Mapplethorpe
  * Lili Lakich
  * Kermit Love
  * Jack Kirby
  * Ellsworth Kelly
  * Samantha Katz
  * Bill Griffith
  * Felix Gonzalez-Torres
  * Jules Feiffer
  * Gus Edson
  * Louis Delsarte
  * Roger Cook
  * Bernard Chang
  * Paul Calle
  * Emery Bopp
  * Willard Bond
  * Dave Berg
  * Joseph Barbera
  * Ken Bald
  * David Ascalon
  * Mike Roy
  * Hadieh Shafie
  * Marilyn Nance
  * Lloyd Ziff
  * Jim Hodges (artist)

###  Sports[edit]

  * Sarah Schkeeper

## References[edit]

**Notes**

  1. **^** Pratt Institute | Best College | US News
  2. **^** https://www.pratt.edu/the-institute/pratt-glance/
  3. **^** Tabor, Mary B. W. (13 December 1991). "Pratt Decides to end school for engineers". NYT. Retrieved 15 February 2013. 
  4. **^** http://www.pratt.edu/admissions/request_information/facts_and_figures/
  5. **^** Regional University North Rankings | Top Regional Universities North | US News Best Colleges
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ http://www.princetonreview.com/schools/college/CollegeBasics.aspx?iid=1024039
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ http://www.umb.edu/news_events_media/news/nebest
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Video: Pratt Institute | Watch Treasures of New York Online | WLIW21 Video
  9. **^** Boston Evening Transcript - Google News Archive Search
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ 45073 Pratt MP Report-Part 1-Intro-Analysis-060912.indd
  11. **^** Building of the Day: 375 Pearl Street
  12. **^** Shorthand Educator: A Monthly Magazine - Norman P. Heffley - Google Books
  13. **^** Walkabout: Stenography and the Law in Brooklyn
  14. **^** The History of Pratt, Pratt Institute. Retrieved 8 May 2013.
  15. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ ISSUU - Prattfolio Fall/Winter 2011 "Generations Issue" by Pratt Institute
  16. **^** Brooklyn Campus Library | About | Pratt Institute Libraries
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ ISSUU - Prattfolio "125th Anniversary Commemorative Issue" by Pratt Institute
  18. **^** "From an Educational Experiment, Pratt's Institute Has Grown in 25 Years Into a Splendid Institution With 4,31 0 Students". _The New York Times_. 2 June 1912.  
  19. **^** Pratt Institute | Celebrating 125 Years | Pratt Icons Gallery | Donald A. Hall
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ http://www.pratt.edu/uploads/undergrad_bulletin.pdf
  21. **^** Powell, Michael (6 May 2007). "A Tale Of Two Cities". _The New York Times_. p.  1. 
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ http://mysite.pratt.edu/~cg520/frames_c/campus/text.txt
  23. **^** The Pratt Center Story | Pratt Center
  24. **^** Lakeland Ledger - Google News Archive Search
  25. **^** Making history, but just wanting to play ball | The Portland Press Herald / Maine Sunday Telegram
  26. **^** Tabor, Mary B. W. (13 December 1991). "Pratt Decides To End School For Engineers - Page 2 - New York Times". _The New York Times_.  
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Pratt Sculpture Park - Gridskipper
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Pratt Institute : The Ten College Campuses with the Best Architecture : Architectural Digest
  29. **^** [Flagpole]|Flickr – Condivisione di foto!
  30. **^** Slesin, Suzanne (2 June 1988). "Pratt, at Its Centennial, to Get a Mall". _The New York Times_.  
  31. **^** About Pratt | Visit Pratt | Tour the Campus | Sculpture Park
  32. **^** "Huge fire tears through Pratt Institute building". WABC TV. Retrieved  15 February 2013. 
  33. **^** https://www.asme.org/getmedia/745d7e61-1b79-40cc-847e-e2c0afaeebf6/25-Pratt-Institute-Power-Plant.aspx
  34. **^** [Pratt Institute High School]|Flickr – Condivisione di foto!
  35. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Pratt Institute
  36. **^** "Pratt Institute—Caroline Ladd Pratt House". _NYC-ARTS_. Retrieved  12 September 2012.  External link in `|work=` (help)
  37. **^** http://www.nyc.gov/html/lpc/downloads/pdf/reports/CLINTON_HILL_HISTORIC_DISTRICT.pdf
  38. **^** [Higgins Hall]|Flickr – Condivisione di foto!
  39. **^** Sengupta, Somini (28 July 1996). "Pratt's Dream Is Thwarted By a Fire". _The New York Times_.  
  40. **^** Steven Holl Architects
  41. **^** Pratt Institute School of Architecture | Rogers Marvel Architects
  42. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ National Park Service (2009-03-13). "National Register Information System". _National Register of Historic Places_. National Park Service.  
  43. **^** Campus Heritage Grants 2005 (Getty Press Release)
  44. **^** Welcome to Admissions | Request Information | Facts and Figures
  45. **^** Bowling Green State University Brochure
  46. **^** "Brooklyn Bus Map" (PDF). Metropolitan Transportation Authority. November 2016. Retrieved July 17, 2017. 
  47. **^** "Subway Map" (PDF). Metropolitan Transportation Authority. June 25, 2017. Retrieved July 1, 2017. 
  48. **^** Citi Bike Stations
  49. **^** New Jersey Transit
  50. **^** "Pratt-Phoenix School of Design" (PDF). _Neighborhood Preservation Center_. Retrieved  February 17, 2017. 
  51. **^** "Our Academic Program: Joint-Degree Programs". Brooklyn Law School. Retrieved  March 24, 2011. 
  52. **^** Best Interior Design Programs | Top Fine Arts Schools | US News Best Graduate Schools
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Big Shifts in Design School Rankings for 2013 - DesignIntelligence
  54. **^** Best Industrial Design Programs | Top Fine Arts Schools | US News Best Graduate Schools
  55. **^** [1]
  56. **^** "ARCHITECTURE TOP 20 PROGRAMS 2014" (PDF). 
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ World's Best Architecture Schools and Universities - Top 10 List
  58. **^** Academics | Architecture
  59. **^** The Top 20 Fashion Schools in the US: The Fashionista Ranking | Fashionista
  60. **^** Gregoire, Carolyn (2 December 2011). "So, You Want To Work In Fashion? Top 8 Style-Savvy Colleges". _Huffington Post_.  
  61. **^** Best Industrial Design Programs | Top Fine Arts Schools | US News Best Graduate Schools
  62. **^** >Best Archives and Preservation Programs | Top Library Information Science Schools | US News Best Graduate Schools
  63. **^** Regional University North Rankings | Top Regional Universities North | US News Best Colleges
  64. **^** What's the Buzz? Exclusive TrendTopper MediaBuzz Rankings | University Business Magazine
  65. **^** The Best Design Programs in the World - BusinessWeek
  66. **^** The World's 25 Best Design Schools - Business Insider
  67. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Kiplinger's Best Values in Private Colleges-Kiplinger
  68. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ About Pratt | Mission and Governance | Message from the President | Pratt Accreditation
  69. **^** NAAB: Schools Database (Pratt Institute)
  70. **^** Accredited Programs | CIDA
  71. **^** Pratt Institute « AICAD : Association of Independent Colleges of Art and Design
  72. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Common Data Elements:
  73. **^** "B02001. RACE - Universe: TOTAL POPULATION". _2006American Community Survey_. United States Census Bureau. Retrieved  2002-02-09. 
  74. **^** Program in Architecture and Urban Design - Pratt Institute in Brooklyn, NY - Graduate Program Information at Petersons.com
  75. **^** http://www.pratt.edu/uploads/113-undergraduate_coa_2013-2014.pdf
  76. **^** Pratt Institute | Paying for School | Best College | US News
  77. **^** Colgate Games homepage
  78. **^** Pratt Institute Student Media Organizations
  79. **^** " 'Fringe' Films on Rival Turf". Parade.com. 2010-04-13. Retrieved 2012-09-26. 
  80. **^** Rosenfeld, Albert (2013). _The Quintessence of Irving Langmuir_. Elsevier. p. 62.  
  81. **^** "Interior Design Faculty". _FITNYC.edu_. Fashion Institute of Technology. Retrieved  16 January 2017. 

**Further reading**

  * Elbert Hubbard, 1909, _Little Journeys to the Homes_
  * Tarbell, Ida M. 1904, _The History of Standard Oil_
  * Council for Advancement and Support of Education (CASE) Web site, Pratt Institute page
  * Pratt Institute official Web site, History page
  * New York Times article announcing end of engineering school

##  External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Pratt Institute**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Pratt Institute—Documentary produced by Treasures of New York
  * Historic American Engineering Record (HAER) No. NY-70, "Pratt Institute, Power Generating Plant, Willoughby Avenue between Classen & Hall Streets, Brooklyn, Kings County, NY", 2 photos, 1 data page, 1 photo caption page
  * Pratt Institute Archives

  * v
  * t
  * e

Northeastern United States Art Colleges  
  
---  
  
  * AIB
  * Cooper Union
  * Corcoran
  * DCAD
  * FIT
  * LACFA
  * MECA
  * MICA
  * MassArt&Design
  * Montserrat
  * Paier
  * Parsons
  * Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
  * Pratt
  * RISD
  * School of the Museum of Fine Arts at Tufts
  * SVA
  * Vesper (closed)
  * UArts

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in New York City  
  
---  
Comprehensive |

  * Columbia
  * CUNY
  * Fordham
  * LIU
  * The New School
  * NYU
  * Pace
  * St. John's
  * Touro
  * Yeshiva

  
  
Liberal arts  
colleges |

  * Barnard
  * Boricua
  * SUNY Empire State
  * King's
  * Manhattan College
  * Marymount Manhattan
  * Mercy
  * Mount Saint Vincent
  * Nyack
  * St. Francis
  * St. Joseph's
  * Wagner

  
  
Arts and  
engineering |

  * AADA
  * AMDA
  * Bard
  * Christie's
  * Cooper Union
  * Cornell Tech
  * FIT
  * Juilliard
  * LIM
  * Manhattan School of Music
  * NYAA
  * NYFA
  * NYIT
  * NYSS
  * Pratt
  * SUNY Maritime
  * SVA
  * Vaughn

  
  
Health and law |

  * Brooklyn Law
  * Einstein
  * Mount Sinai
  * NYLS
  * NYMC
  * Pacific
  * Phillips Beth Israel
  * Podiatric
  * Rockefeller
  * SUNY Downstate
  * SUNY Optometry
  * Weill Cornell
  * Cornell Grad School of Medicine

  
  
Theological |

  * ATS
  * GTS
  * Hebrew Union
  * JTS
  * NYTS
  * UTS

  
  
Vocational |

  * Bramson ORT
  * Briarcliffe
  * DeVry
  * Metropolitan
  * Monroe

  
  
Other |

  * Bank Street
  * Berkeley
  * NYIF
  * Teachers

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of Independent Colleges of Art and Design  
  
---  
United States |

  * Art Academy of Cincinnati
  * Art Center College of Design
  * The Art Institute of Boston
  * California College of the Arts
  * California Institute of the Arts
  * Cleveland Institute of Art
  * College for Creative Studies
  * Columbus College of Art and Design
  * Cooper Union
  * Corcoran College of Art and Design
  * Cornish College of the Arts
  * Cranbrook Academy of Art
  * Kansas City Art Institute
  * Laguna College of Art and Design
  * Lyme Academy College of Fine Arts
  * Maine College of Art
  * Maryland Institute College of Art
  * Massachusetts College of Art and Design
  * Memphis College of Art
  * Milwaukee Institute of Art and Design
  * Minneapolis College of Art and Design
  * Montserrat College of Art
  * Moore College of Art and Design
  * New Hampshire Institute of Art
  * Oregon College of Art and Craft
  * Otis College of Art and Design
  * Pacific Northwest College of Art
  * Parsons The New School for Design
  * Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
  * Pennsylvania College of Art and Design
  * Pratt Institute
  * Rhode Island School of Design
  * Ringling College of Art and Design
  * San Francisco Art Institute
  * School of the Art Institute of Chicago
  * School of the Museum of Fine Arts at Tufts
  * School of Visual Arts
  * University of the Arts (Philadelphia)
  * Watkins College of Art, Design & Film  

  
  
International |

  * Alberta College of Art and Design
  * Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design
  * Burren College of Art
  * Emily Carr University of Art and Design
  * NSCAD University
  * OCAD University
  * Osaka University of Arts

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

U.S. National Register of Historic Places in New York  
  
---  
Topics |

  * Contributing property
  * Keeper of the Register
  * Historic district
  * History of the National Register of Historic Places
  * National Park Service
  * Property types

|

  
  
  
  
Lists  
by county |

  * Albany
  * Allegany
  * Bronx
  * Broome
  * Cattaraugus
  * Cayuga
  * Chautauqua
  * Chemung
  * Chenango
  * Clinton
  * Columbia
  * Cortland
  * Delaware
  * Dutchess
  * Erie
  * Essex
  * Franklin
  * Fulton
  * Genesee
  * Greene
  * Hamilton
  * Herkimer
  * Jefferson
  * Kings (Brooklyn)
  * Lewis
  * Livingston
  * Madison
  * Monroe
  * Montgomery
  * Nassau
  * New York (Manhattan)
  * Niagara
  * Oneida
  * Onondaga
  * Ontario
  * Orange
  * Orleans
  * Oswego
  * Otsego
  * Putnam
  * Queens
  * Rensselaer
  * Richmond (Staten Island)
  * Rockland
  * Saratoga
  * Schenectady
  * Schoharie
  * Schuyler
  * Seneca
  * St. Lawrence
  * Steuben
  * Suffolk
  * Sullivan
  * Tioga
  * Tompkins
  * Ulster
  * Warren
  * Washington
  * Wayne
  * Westchester
    * Northern
    * Southern
  * Wyoming
  * Yates

  
  
Lists  
by city |

  * Albany
  * Buffalo
  * New Rochelle
  * New York City 
    * Bronx
    * Brooklyn
    * Queens
    * Staten Island
    * Manhattan
      * Below 14th St.
      * 14th–59th St.
      * 59th–110th St.
      * Above 110th St.
      * Minor islands
  * Niagara Falls
  * Peekskill
  * Poughkeepsie
  * Rhinebeck
  * Rochester
  * Syracuse
  * Yonkers

  
  
Other lists |

  * Bridges and tunnels
  * National Historic Landmarks

  
  
  * Category:National Register of Historic Places in New York (state)
  * Portal:National Register of Historic Places

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Pratt_Institute&oldid=815577167"

Categories:

  * Pratt Institute
  * Art schools in New York City
  * Culture of New York City
  * Educational institutions established in 1887
  * Historic American Engineering Record in New York City
  * Historic districts on the National Register of Historic Places in Brooklyn
  * Universities and colleges in Brooklyn
  * Universities and colleges in Manhattan
  * Universities and colleges in New York City
  * Clinton Hill, Brooklyn
  * Romanesque Revival architecture in New York City
  * Renaissance Revival architecture in New York City
  * University art museums and galleries in New York City
  * USCAA member institutions
  * Universities and colleges on Long Island

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 errors: external links
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Pages using infobox university with unknown parameters
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Pages using New York City Subway service templates
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2013
  * Pages using div col with small parameter

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Deutsch
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Italiano
  * 日本語
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Svenska
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 15 December 2017, at 18:06.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

