

# Princeton University

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Not to be confused with The College of New Jersey.

Princeton University  
---  
Latin: Universitas Princetoniensis  
  
Former names

| College of New Jersey  
(1746–1896)  
Motto | **Lua error in Module:Lang at line 367: invalid value (boolean) at
index 2 in table for 'concat'.** (Latin)[1]  
  
Motto in English

| Under God's Power She Flourishes[1]  
Type | Private  
Established | 1746  
  
Academic affiliations

| AAU  
URA  
NAICU[2]  
Endowment | $23.8 billion (2017)[3]  
President | Christopher L. Eisgruber  
  
Academic staff

| 1,238[4]  
  
Administrative staff

| 1,103  
Students | 8,181 (Fall 2016)[5]  
Undergraduates | 5,400 (Fall 2016)[5]  
Postgraduates | 2,781 (Fall 2016)[5]  
Location | Princeton, New Jersey, U.S.  
40°20′35″N 74°39′25″W﻿ / ﻿40.343°N 74.657°W﻿ / 40.343; -74.657Coordinates:
40°20′35″N 74°39′25″W﻿ / ﻿40.343°N 74.657°W﻿ / 40.343; -74.657[6]  
Campus | Suburban, college town 500 acres (2.0 km2)  
(Princeton)[1]  
Colors | Orange and Black[7]  
  
Nickname | Tigers  
  
Sporting affiliations

| NCAA Division I  
Ivy League, ECAC Hockey, EARC, EIVA  
MAISA  
Website | princeton.edu  
  
**Princeton University** is a private Ivy League research university in
Princeton, New Jersey, United States. Founded in 1746 in Elizabeth as the
College of New Jersey, Princeton is the fourth-oldest institution of higher
education in the United States and one of the nine colonial colleges chartered
before the American Revolution.[8][a] The institution moved to Newark in 1747,
then to the current site nine years later, where it was renamed Princeton
University in 1896.[13]

Princeton provides undergraduate and graduate instruction in the humanities,
social sciences, natural sciences and engineering.[14] It offers professional
degrees through the Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs,
the School of Engineering and Applied Science, the School of Architecture and
the Bendheim Center for Finance. The university has ties with the Institute
for Advanced Study, Princeton Theological Seminary and the Westminster Choir
College of Rider University.[b] Princeton has the largest endowment per
student in the United States.[15] From 2001 to 2017, Princeton University was
ranked either first or second among national universities by _U.S. News& World
Report_ , holding the top spot for 15 of those 17 years.[16]

The university has graduated many notable alumni. As of 2017, Princeton has
been associated with 43 Nobel laureates, 21 National Medal of Science winners,
14 Fields Medalists, 5 Abel Prize winners, 10 Turing Award laureates, five
National Humanities Medal recipients, 209 Rhodes Scholars, 139 Gates Cambridge
Scholars and 126 Marshall Scholars.[17] Two U.S. Presidents, 12 U.S. Supreme
Court Justices (three of whom currently serve on the court) and numerous
living billionaires and foreign heads of state are all counted among
Princeton's alumni body. Princeton has also graduated many prominent members
of the U.S. Congress and the U.S. Cabinet, including eight Secretaries of
State, three Secretaries of Defense and three of the past five Chairs of the
Federal Reserve.

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Coeducation at Princeton University
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 Cannon Green
    * 2.2 Buildings
      * 2.2.1 Nassau Hall
      * 2.2.2 Residential colleges
      * 2.2.3 McCarter Theatre
      * 2.2.4 Art Museum
      * 2.2.5 University Chapel
      * 2.2.6 Murray-Dodge Hall
      * 2.2.7 Apartment facilities
    * 2.3 Sustainability
  * 3 Organization
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Undergraduate
      * 4.1.1 Admissions and financial aid
      * 4.1.2 Grade deflation policy
    * 4.2 Graduate
    * 4.3 Libraries
    * 4.4 Rankings
    * 4.5 Institutes
      * 4.5.1 Princeton Environmental Institute
        * 4.5.1.1 PEI research centers
        * 4.5.1.2 PEI reception
  * 5 Student life and culture
    * 5.1 Traditions
  * 6 Athletics
    * 6.1 Varsity
    * 6.2 Club and intramural
  * 7 Songs
    * 7.1 "Old Nassau"
  * 8 Notable alumni and faculty
  * 9 See also
  * 10 Notes
  * 11 References
  * 12 Further reading
  * 13 External links

## History[edit]

Main article: History of Princeton University

A commemorative 3-cent stamp from 1956 celebrating the bicentennial of Nassau
Hall

New Light Presbyterians founded the College of New Jersey in 1746 in order to
train ministers.[18] The college was the educational and religious capital of
Scots-Irish America. In 1754, trustees of the College of New Jersey suggested
that, in recognition of Governor Jonathan Belcher's interest, Princeton should
be named as Belcher College. Belcher replied: "What a name that would be!"[19]
In 1756, the college moved to Princeton, New Jersey. Its home in Princeton was
Nassau Hall, named for the royal House of Orange-Nassau of William III of
England.

Following the untimely deaths of Princeton's first five presidents, John
Witherspoon became president in 1768 and remained in that office until his
death in 1794. During his presidency, Witherspoon shifted the college's focus
from training ministers to preparing a new generation for leadership in the
new American nation. To this end, he tightened academic standards and
solicited investment in the college.[20] Witherspoon's presidency constituted
a long period of stability for the college, interrupted by the American
Revolution and particularly the Battle of Princeton, during which British
soldiers briefly occupied Nassau Hall; American forces, led by George
Washington, fired cannon on the building to rout them from it.

John Witherspoon, President of the College (1768-94), signer of the
Declaration of Independence

In 1812, the eighth president the College of New Jersey, Ashbel Green
(1812–23), helped establish the Princeton Theological Seminary next door.[21]
The plan to extend the theological curriculum met with "enthusiastic approval
on the part of the authorities at the College of New Jersey".[22] Today,
Princeton University and Princeton Theological Seminary maintain separate
institutions with ties that include services such as cross-registration and
mutual library access.[23][24]

Before the construction of Stanhope Hall in 1803, Nassau Hall was the
college's sole building. The cornerstone of the building was laid on September
17, 1754.[25] During the summer of 1783, the Continental Congress met in
Nassau Hall, making Princeton the country's capital for four months. Over the
centuries and through two redesigns following major fires (1802 and 1855),
Nassau Hall's role shifted from an all-purpose building, comprising office,
dormitory, library, and classroom space; to classroom space exclusively; to
its present role as the administrative center of the University. The class of
1879 donated twin lion sculptures that flanked the entrance until 1911, when
that same class replaced them with tigers.[26] Nassau Hall's bell rang after
the hall's construction; however, the fire of 1802 melted it. The bell was
then recast and melted again in the fire of 1855.[26]

A Birds-eye view of campus in 1906

James McCosh took office as the college's president in 1868 and lifted the
institution out of a low period that had been brought about by the American
Civil War.[27] During his two decades of service, he overhauled the
curriculum, oversaw an expansion of inquiry into the sciences, and supervised
the addition of a number of buildings in the High Victorian Gothic style to
the campus.[27] McCosh Hall is named in his honor.[26]

In 1879, the first thesis for a Doctor of Philosophy Ph.D. was submitted by
James F. Williamson, Class of 1877.

In 1896, the college officially changed its name from the College of New
Jersey to Princeton University to honor the town in which it resides.[28]
During this year, the college also underwent large expansion and officially
became a university. In 1900, the Graduate School was established.[29]

In 1902, Woodrow Wilson, graduate of the Class of 1879, was elected the 13th
president of the university.[29] Under Wilson, Princeton introduced the
preceptorial system in 1905, a then-unique concept in the US that augmented
the standard lecture method of teaching with a more personal form in which
small groups of students, or precepts, could interact with a single
instructor, or preceptor, in their field of interest.

Albert Einstein and Thomas Mann at Princeton, 1938

In 1906, the reservoir Lake Carnegie was created by Andrew Carnegie.[29] A
collection of historical photographs of the building of the lake is housed at
the Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library on Princeton's campus.[30] On October 2,
1913, the Princeton University Graduate College was dedicated.[29] In 1919 the
School of Architecture was established.[29] In 1933, Albert Einstein became a
lifetime member of the Institute for Advanced Study with an office on the
Princeton campus. While always independent of the university, the Institute
for Advanced Study occupied offices in Jones Hall for 6 years, from its
opening in 1933, until their own campus was finished and opened in 1939. This
helped start an incorrect impression that it was part of the university, one
that has never been completely eradicated.

### Coeducation at Princeton University[edit]

Main article: Coeducation at Princeton University

Former First Lady Michelle Obama, Class of 1985

Supreme Court Justice Sonia Sotomayor, Class of 1976

In 1969, Princeton University first admitted women as undergraduates. In 1887,
the university actually maintained and staffed a sister college, Evelyn
College for Women, in the town of Princeton on Evelyn and Nassau streets. It
was closed after roughly a decade of operation. After abortive discussions
with Sarah Lawrence College to relocate the women's college to Princeton and
merge it with the University in 1967, the administration decided to admit
women and turned to the issue of transforming the school's operations and
facilities into a female-friendly campus. The administration had barely
finished these plans in April 1969 when the admissions office began mailing
out its acceptance letters. Its five-year coeducation plan provided $7.8
million for the development of new facilities that would eventually house and
educate 650 women students at Princeton by 1974. Ultimately, 148 women,
consisting of 100 freshmen and transfer students of other years, entered
Princeton on September 6, 1969 amidst much media attention. Princeton enrolled
its first female graduate student, Sabra Follett Meservey, as a PhD candidate
in Turkish history in 1961. A handful of undergraduate women had studied at
Princeton from 1963 on, spending their junior year there to study "critical
languages" in which Princeton's offerings surpassed those of their home
institutions. They were considered regular students for their year on campus,
but were not candidates for a Princeton degree.

As a result of a 1979 lawsuit by Sally Frank, Princeton's eating clubs were
required to go coeducational in 1991, after Tiger Inn's appeal to the U.S.
Supreme Court was denied.[31] In 1987, the university changed the gendered
lyrics of "Old Nassau" to reflect the school's co-educational student
body.[32] In 2009-11, Princeton professor Nannerl O. Keohane chaired a
committee on undergraduate women's leadership at the university, appointed by
President Shirley M. Tilghman.[33]

## Campus[edit]

The eastern side of the Washington Road Elm Allée, one of the entrances to the
campus

The main campus sits on about 500 acres (2.0 km2) in Princeton. In 2011, the
main campus was named by Travel+Leisure as one of the most beautiful in the
United States.[34] The James Forrestal Campus is split between nearby
Plainsboro and South Brunswick. The University also owns some property in West
Windsor Township.[1]:44 The campuses are situated about one hour from both New
York City and Philadelphia.

The first building on campus was Nassau Hall, completed in 1756 and situated
on the northern edge of campus facing Nassau Street.[26] The campus expanded
steadily around Nassau Hall during the early and middle 19th century.[35][36]
The McCosh presidency (1868–88) saw the construction of a number of buildings
in the High Victorian Gothic and Romanesque Revival styles; many of them are
now gone, leaving the remaining few to appear out of place.[37] At the end of
the 19th century Princeton adopted the Collegiate Gothic style for which it is
known today.[38] Implemented initially by William Appleton Potter[38] and
later enforced by the University's supervising architect, Ralph Adams
Cram,[39] the Collegiate Gothic style remained the standard for all new
building on the Princeton campus through 1960.[40][41] A flurry of
construction in the 1960s produced a number of new buildings on the south side
of the main campus, many of which have been poorly received.[42] Several
prominent architects have contributed some more recent additions, including
Frank Gehry (Lewis Library),[43] I. M. Pei (Spelman Halls),[44] Demetri
Porphyrios (Whitman College, a Collegiate Gothic project),[45] Robert Venturi
(Frist Campus Center, among several others),[46] and Rafael Viñoly (Carl Icahn
Laboratory).[47]

Alexander Hall, the main concert hall on campus

A group of 20th-century sculptures scattered throughout the campus forms the
Putnam Collection of Sculpture. It includes works by Alexander Calder ( _Five
Disks: One Empty_ ), Jacob Epstein ( _Albert Einstein_ ), Henry Moore ( _Oval
With Points_ ), Isamu Noguchi ( _White Sun_ ), and Pablo Picasso ( _Head of a
Woman_ ).[48] Richard Serra's _The Hedgehog and The Fox_ is located between
Peyton and Fine halls next to Princeton Stadium and the Lewis Library.[49]

At the southern edge of the campus is Lake Carnegie, an artificial lake named
for Andrew Carnegie. Carnegie financed the lake's construction in 1906 at the
behest of a friend who was a Princeton alumnus.[50] Carnegie hoped the
opportunity to take up rowing would inspire Princeton students to forsake
football, which he considered "not gentlemanly."[51] The Shea Rowing Center on
the lake's shore continues to serve as the headquarters for Princeton
rowing.[52]

### Cannon Green[edit]

Cannon Green ca. 1909, with East Pyne, Whig and Clio Halls

Buried in the ground at the center of the lawn south of Nassau Hall is the
"Big Cannon," which was left in Princeton by British troops as they fled
following the Battle of Princeton. It remained in Princeton until the War of
1812, when it was taken to New Brunswick.[53] In 1836 the cannon was returned
to Princeton and placed at the eastern end of town. It was removed to the
campus under cover of night by Princeton students in 1838 and buried in its
current location in 1840.[54]

A second "Little Cannon" is buried in the lawn in front of nearby Whig Hall.
This cannon, which may also have been captured in the Battle of Princeton, was
stolen by students of Rutgers University in 1875. The theft ignited the
Rutgers-Princeton Cannon War. A compromise between the presidents of Princeton
and Rutgers ended the war and forced the return of the Little Cannon to
Princeton.[55] The protruding cannons are occasionally painted scarlet by
Rutgers students who continue the traditional dispute.[56][57][58]

In years when the Princeton football team beats the teams of both Harvard
University and Yale University in the same season, Princeton celebrates with a
bonfire on Cannon Green. This occurred in 2012, ending a five-year drought.
The next bonfire happened on November 24, 2013, and was broadcast live over
the Internet.[59]

### Buildings[edit]

#### Nassau Hall[edit]

Main article: Nassau Hall

Nassau Hall (1756) in a 1903 photo, the campus's oldest building, original
home of the New Jersey Legislature, and capital of the United States in the
summer of 1783

Nassau Hall is the oldest building on campus. Begun in 1754 and completed in
1756,[26] it was the first seat of the New Jersey Legislature in 1776,[60] was
involved in the battle of Princeton in 1777,[26] and was the seat of the
Congress of the Confederation (and thus capitol of the United States) from
June 30, 1783, to November 4, 1783.[61][62] It now houses the office of the
university president and other administrative offices, and remains the
symbolic center of the campus.[63] The front entrance is flanked by two bronze
tigers, a gift of the Princeton Class of 1879.[26] Commencement is held on the
front lawn of Nassau Hall in good weather.[64] In 1966, Nassau Hall was added
to the National Register of Historic Places.[65]

#### Residential colleges[edit]

|

This section **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(October 2017)_ _(Learn how and when
to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
Holder Hall and tower of Rockefeller College

Blair Hall, the western portion of which is part of Mathey College

Walker Hall, part of Wilson College

Butler College

Forbes College in winter from the golf course

Whitman College

Princeton has six undergraduate residential colleges, each housing
approximately 500 freshmen, sophomores, some juniors and seniors, and a
handful of junior and senior resident advisers. Each college consists of a set
of dormitories, a dining hall, a variety of other amenities—such as study
spaces, libraries, performance spaces, and darkrooms—and a collection of
administrators and associated faculty. Two colleges, Wilson College and Forbes
College (formerly Princeton Inn College), date to the 1970s; three others,
Rockefeller, Mathey, and Butler Colleges, were created in 1983 following the
Committee on Undergraduate Residential Life (CURL) report, which suggested the
institution of residential colleges as a solution to an allegedly fragmented
campus social life. The construction of Whitman College, the university's
sixth residential college, was completed in 2007.

Rockefeller and Mathey are located in the northwest corner of the campus;
Princeton brochures often feature their Collegiate Gothic architecture. Like
most of Princeton's Gothic buildings, they predate the residential college
system and were fashioned into colleges from individual dormitories.

Wilson and Butler, located south of the center of the campus, were built in
the 1960s. Wilson served as an early experiment in the establishment of the
residential college system. Butler, like Rockefeller and Mathey, consisted of
a collection of ordinary dorms (called the "New New Quad") before the addition
of a dining hall made it a residential college. Widely disliked for their edgy
modernist design, including "waffle ceilings", the dormitories on the Butler
Quad were demolished in 2007. Butler is now reopened as a four-year
residential college, housing both under- and upperclassmen.

Forbes is located on the site of the historic Princeton Inn, a gracious hotel
overlooking the Princeton golf course. The Princeton Inn, originally
constructed in 1924, played regular host to important symposia and gatherings
of renowned scholars from both the university and the nearby Institute for
Advanced Study for many years.[66] Forbes currently houses over 400
undergraduates and a number of resident graduate students in its residential
halls.

In 2003, Princeton broke ground for a sixth college named Whitman College
after its principal sponsor, Meg Whitman, who graduated from Princeton in
1977. The new dormitories were constructed in the Collegiate Gothic
architectural style and were designed by architect Demetri Porphyrios.
Construction finished in 2007, and Whitman College was inaugurated as
Princeton's sixth residential college that same year.

The precursor of the present college system in America was originally proposed
by university president Woodrow Wilson in the early 20th century. For over 800
years, however, the collegiate system had already existed in Britain at
Cambridge and Oxford Universities. Wilson's model was much closer to Yale's
present system, which features four-year colleges. Lacking the support of the
trustees, the plan languished until 1968. That year, Wilson College was
established to cap a series of alternatives to the eating clubs. Fierce
debates raged before the present residential college system emerged. The plan
was first attempted at Yale, but the administration was initially
uninterested; an exasperated alum, Edward Harkness, finally paid to have the
college system implemented at Harvard in the 1920s, leading to the oft-quoted
aphorism that the college system is a Princeton idea that was executed at
Harvard with funding from Yale.[67]

Princeton has one graduate residential college, known simply as the Graduate
College, located beyond Forbes College at the outskirts of campus. The far-
flung location of the GC was the spoil of a squabble between Woodrow Wilson
and then-Graduate School Dean Andrew Fleming West. Wilson preferred a central
location for the College; West wanted the graduate students as far as possible
from the campus. Ultimately, West prevailed.[66] The Graduate College is
composed of a large Collegiate Gothic section crowned by Cleveland Tower, a
local landmark that also houses a world-class carillon. The attached New
Graduate College departs in its design from Collegiate Gothic; it is
reminiscent of the former dormitories of Butler College, the newest of the
five pre-Whitman residential colleges.

#### McCarter Theatre[edit]

McCarter Theater

Main article: McCarter Theatre

The Tony-award-winning[68] McCarter Theatre was built by the Princeton
Triangle Club, a student performance group, using club profits and a gift from
Princeton University alumnus Thomas McCarter. Today, the Triangle Club
performs its annual freshmen revue, fall show, and Reunions performances in
McCarter. McCarter is also recognized as one of the leading regional theaters
in the United States.

#### Art Museum[edit]

Main article: Princeton University Art Museum

The Art Museum

The Princeton University Art Museum was established in 1882 to give students
direct, intimate, and sustained access to original works of art that
complement and enrich instruction and research at the university. This
continues to be a primary function, along with serving as a community resource
and a destination for national and international visitors.

Numbering over 92,000 objects, the collections range from ancient to
contemporary art and concentrate geographically on the Mediterranean regions,
Western Europe, China, the United States, and Latin America. There is a
collection of Greek and Roman antiquities, including ceramics, marbles,
bronzes, and Roman mosaics from faculty excavations in Antioch. Medieval
Europe is represented by sculpture, metalwork, and stained glass. The
collection of Western European paintings includes examples from the early
Renaissance through the 19th century, with masterpieces by Monet, Cézanne, and
Van Gogh, and features a growing collection of 20th-century and contemporary
art, including iconic paintings such as Andy Warhol's Blue Marilyn.

One of the best features of the museums is its collection of Chinese art, with
important holdings in bronzes, tomb figurines, painting, and calligraphy. Its
collection of pre-Columbian art includes examples of Mayan art, and is
commonly considered to be the most important collection of pre-Columbian art
outside of Latin America. The museum has collections of old master prints and
drawings and a comprehensive collection of over 27,000 original photographs.
African art and Northwest Coast Indian art are also represented. The Museum
also oversees the outdoor Putnam Collection of Sculpture.

#### University Chapel[edit]

Main article: Princeton University Chapel

The Crucifixion window

Princeton University Chapel

The Princeton University Chapel is located on the north side of campus, near
Nassau Street. It was built between 1924 and 1928, at a cost of $2.3
million,[69] approximately $32.1 million in 2016 dollars. Ralph Adams Cram,
the University's supervising architect, designed the Chapel, which he viewed
as the crown jewel for the Collegiate Gothic motif he had championed for the
campus.[70] At the time of its construction, it was the second largest
university chapel in the world, after King's College Chapel, Cambridge.[71] It
underwent a two-year, $10 million restoration campaign between 2000 and
2002.[72]

Measured on the exterior, the Chapel is 277 feet (84 m) long, 76 feet (23 m)
wide at its transepts, and 121 feet (37 m) high.[73] The exterior is
Pennsylvania sandstone, with Indiana limestone used for the trim.[74] The
interior is mostly limestone and Aquia Creek sandstone. The design evokes an
English church of the Middle Ages.[75] The extensive iconography, in stained
glass, stonework, and wood carvings, has the common theme of connecting
religion and scholarship.[70]

The Chapel seats almost 2,000.[76][77] It hosts weekly ecumenical Christian
services,[78] daily Roman Catholic mass,[79][80] and several annual special
events.

#### Murray-Dodge Hall[edit]

Murray-Dodge Hall

Murray-Dodge Hall houses the Office of Religious Life (ORL),[81] the Murray
Dodge Theater, the Murray-Dodge Café,[82] the Muslim Prayer Room and the
Interfaith Prayer Room.[83] The ORL houses the office of the Dean of Religious
Life, Alison Boden,[84] and a number of university chaplains, including the
country's first Hindu chaplain, Vineet Chander; and one of the country's first
Muslim chaplains, Sohaib Sultan.[85]

#### Apartment facilities[edit]

Princeton university has several apartment facilities for graduate students
and their dependents. They are Lakeside Apartments, Lawrence Apartments, and
Stanworth Apartments.[86]

### Sustainability[edit]

Published in 2008, Princeton's Sustainability Plan highlights three priority
areas for the University's Office of Sustainability: reduction of greenhouse
gas emissions; conservation of resources; and research, education, and civic
engagement.[87] Princeton has committed to reducing its carbon dioxide
emissions to 1990 levels by 2020,[88]:Energy without the purchase of
offsets.[89] The University published its first Sustainability Progress Report
in November 2009.[90] The University has adopted a green purchasing policy and
recycling program that focuses on paper products, construction materials,
lightbulbs, furniture, and electronics.[ _better reference needed_
][88]:Purchasing[91] Its dining halls have set a goal to purchase 75%
sustainable food products by 2015.[88]:Food The student organization "Greening
Princeton" seeks to encourage the University administration to adopt
environmentally friendly policies on campus.[92]

## Organization[edit]

The Trustees of Princeton University, a 40-member board, is responsible for
the overall direction of the University. It approves the operating and capital
budgets, supervises the investment of the University's endowment and oversees
campus real estate and long-range physical planning. The trustees also
exercise prior review and approval concerning changes in major policies, such
as those in instructional programs and admission, as well as tuition and fees
and the hiring of faculty members.

With an endowment of $22.15 billion, Princeton University is among the
wealthiest universities in the world. Ranked in 2010 as the third largest
endowment in the United States, the university had the greatest per-student
endowment in the world (over $2 million for undergraduates) in 2011.[93] Such
a significant endowment is sustained through the continued donations of its
alumni and is maintained by investment advisers.[94] Some of Princeton's
wealth is invested in its art museum, which features works by Claude Monet,
Vincent van Gogh, Jackson Pollock, and Andy Warhol among other prominent
artists.

## Academics[edit]

East Pyne Hall, home to several departments in the humanities, in a 1903 photo
when it served as the University library

Undergraduates fulfill general education requirements, choose among a wide
variety of elective courses, and pursue departmental concentrations and
interdisciplinary certificate programs. Required independent work is a
hallmark of undergraduate education at Princeton. Students graduate with
either the Bachelor of Arts (A.B.) or the Bachelor of Science in Engineering
(B.S.E.).

The graduate school offers advanced degrees spanning the humanities, social
sciences, natural sciences, and engineering. Doctoral education is available
in most disciplines.[95] It emphasizes original and independent scholarship
whereas master's degree programs in architecture, engineering, finance, and
public affairs and public policy prepare candidates for careers in public life
and professional practice.

### Undergraduate[edit]

McCosh 50, the largest lecture hall on campus

Undergraduate courses in the humanities are traditionally either seminars or
lectures held 2 or 3 times a week with an additional discussion seminar that
is called a "precept." To graduate, all A.B. candidates must complete a senior
thesis and, in most departments, one or two extensive pieces of independent
research that are known as "junior papers." Juniors in some departments,
including architecture and the creative arts, complete independent projects
that differ from written research papers. A.B. candidates must also fulfill a
three or four semester foreign language requirement and distribution
requirements with a total of 31 classes. B.S.E. candidates follow a parallel
track with an emphasis on a rigorous science and math curriculum, a computer
science requirement, and at least two semesters of independent research
including an optional senior thesis. All B.S.E. students must complete at
least 36 classes. A.B. candidates typically have more freedom in course
selection than B.S.E. candidates because of the fewer number of required
classes. Nonetheless, in the spirit of a liberal arts education, both enjoy a
comparatively high degree of latitude in creating a self-structured
curriculum.

Undergraduates agree to adhere to an academic integrity policy called the
Honor Code, established in 1893. Under the Honor Code, faculty do not proctor
examinations; instead, the students proctor one another and must report any
suspected violation to an Honor Committee made up of undergraduates. The
Committee investigates reported violations and holds a hearing if it is
warranted. An acquittal at such a hearing results in the destruction of all
records of the hearing; a conviction results in the student's suspension or
expulsion.[96] The signed pledge required by the Honor Code is so integral to
students' academic experience that the Princeton Triangle Club performs a song
about it each fall.[97][98] Out-of-class exercises fall under the jurisdiction
of the Faculty-Student Committee on Discipline.[99] Undergraduates are
expected to sign a pledge on their written work affirming that they have not
plagiarized the work.[100]

#### Admissions and financial aid[edit]

_Fall first-year statistics_   | 2017 | 2016[5] | 2015[101] | 2014[102] |
2013[103]  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
Applicants | 31,056 | 29,303 | 27,290 | 26,641 | 26,498  
Admits | 1,890 | 1,911 | 1,948 | 1,983 | 1,963  
Admit rate | 6.1% | 6.5% | 7.1% | 7.4% | 7.4%  
Enrolled | 1,308 | 1,306 | 1,319 | 1,312 | 1,285  
SAT range |  | 2100-2380 | 2100-2380 | 2100-2400 | 2120-2390  
ACT range |  | 32-35 | 32-35 | 31-35 | 31-35  
  
Morrison Hall, formerly known as West College, home to the undergraduate
admissions office

Princeton's undergraduate program is highly selective, admitting 6.1% of
undergraduate applicants in the 2016-2017 admissions cycle (for the Class of
2021).[5] The middle 50% range of SAT scores were 690-790 for critical
reading, 710-800 for math, and 700-790 for writing.[5] The middle 50% range of
the ACT Composite score was 32-35.[5]

In September 2006, the university announced that all applicants for the Class
of 2012 would be considered in a single pool, effectively ending the school's
early decision program.[104] In February 2011, following decisions by the
University of Virginia and Harvard University to reinstate their early
admissions programs, Princeton announced it would institute an early action
program, starting with applicants for the Class of 2016.[105] In 2011, _The
Business Journal_ rated Princeton as the most selective college in the Eastern
United States in terms of admission selectivity.[106]

In 2001, expanding on earlier reforms, Princeton became the first university
to eliminate loans for all students who qualify for financial aid.[107] All
demonstrated need is met with combinations of grants and campus jobs. In
addition, all admissions are need-blind.[108] _U.S. News& World Report_ and
_Princeton Review_ both cite Princeton as the university that has the fewest
of graduates with debt even though 60% of incoming students are on some type
of financial aid.[109] _Kiplinger_ magazine in 2016 ranked Princeton as the
best value among private universities, noting that the average graduating debt
is $8,557.[110]

####  Grade deflation policy[edit]

Room 302 is a lecture hall at Frist Campus Center restored to its condition
when Albert Einstein taught there

In 2004, Nancy Weiss Malkiel, the Dean of the College, implemented a grade
deflation policy to curb the number of A-range grades undergraduates
received.[111] Malkiel's argument was that an A was beginning to lose its
meaning as a larger percentage of the student body received them.[111] While
the number of A's has indeed decreased under the policy, many argue that this
is hurting Princeton students when they apply to jobs or graduate school.[111]
Malkiel has said that she sent pamphlets to inform institutions about the
policy so that they consider Princeton students equally,[111] but students
argue that Princeton graduates can apply to other institutions that know
nothing about it. They argue further that as other schools purposefully
inflate their grades,[112] Princeton students' GPAs will look low by
comparison. Further, studies have shown that employers prefer high grades even
when they are inflated.[113] The policy remained in place even after Malkiel
stepped down at the end of the 2010–2011 academic term. The policy deflates
grades only relative to their previous levels; indeed, as of 2009, or five
years after the policy was instituted, the average graduating GPA saw a
marginal decrease, from 3.46 to 3.39.[114]

In August 2014, a faculty committee tasked by Dean of the College Valerie
Smith to review the effectiveness of grade deflation found not only that the
35% target was both often misinterpreted as a hard quota and applied
inconsistently across departments, but also that grades had begun to decline
in 2003, the year before the policy was implemented.[115][116] The committee
concluded that the observed lower grades since 2003 were the result of
discussions and increased awareness during and since the implementation of the
deflation policy, and not the deflation targets themselves, so recommended
removing the numerical targets while charging individual departments with
developing consistent standards for grading.[117] In October 2014, following a
faculty vote, the numerical targets were removed as recommended by the
committee.[118]

### Graduate[edit]

Cleveland Tower dominates the skyline of the Graduate College

The Graduate School has about 2,600 students in 42 academic departments and
programs in social sciences, engineering, natural sciences, and humanities. In
2012–13, it received over 11,000 applications for admission and awarded 319
Ph.D. degrees and 170 final master's degrees. Princeton has no medical school,
law school, business school, or school of education. (A short-lived Princeton
Law School folded in 1852.) It offers professional graduate degrees in
architecture, engineering, finance, and public policy, the last through the
Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs, founded in 1930 as
the School of Public and International Affairs and renamed in 1948 after
university president (and U.S. President) Woodrow Wilson.

### Libraries[edit]

Firestone Library, the largest of Princeton's libraries

The Princeton University Library system houses over eleven million
holdings[119] including seven million bound volumes.[120] The main university
library, Firestone Library, which houses almost four million volumes, is one
of the largest university libraries in the world.[121] Additionally, it is
among the largest "open stack" libraries in existence. Its collections include
the autographed manuscript of F. Scott Fitzgerald's _The Great Gatsby_ and
George F. Kennan's Long Telegram. In addition to Firestone library,
specialized libraries exist for architecture, art and archaeology, East Asian
studies, engineering, music, public and international affairs, public policy
and university archives, and the sciences. In an effort to expand access,
these libraries also subscribe to thousands of electronic resources. In
February 2007, Princeton became the 12th major library system to join Google's
ambitious project to scan the world's great literary works and make them
searchable over the Web.[122]

###  Rankings[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[123] |  5  
_Forbes_[124] |  3  
_U.S. News& World Report_[125] |  1  
_Washington Monthly_[126] |  4  
Global  
_ARWU_[127] |  6  
_QS_[128] |  13  
_Times_[129] |  7  
_U.S. News& World Report_[130] |  6  
  
USNWR graduate school rankings[131]  
  
---  
Engineering | 17  
  
USNWR departmental rankings[131]  
  
---  
Biological Sciences | 9  
Chemistry | 15  
Computer Science | 8  
Earth Sciences | 11  
Economics | 1  
English | 8  
History | 1  
Mathematics | 1  
Physics | 2  
Political Science | 3  
Psychology | 8  
Public Affairs | 4  
Sociology | 1  
  
From 2001 to 2017, Princeton University was ranked either first or second
among national universities by _U.S. News& World Report_ (USNWR), holding the
top spot for 15 of those 17 years[16] (sole #1 ten times, #1 tied with Harvard
five times). Princeton was ranked first in the most recent 2017 _U.S. News_
rankings, as well as #1 in the 2015, 2016, and 2017 rankings for "best
undergraduate teaching."[132] In the 2015–16 _Times Higher Education_
assessment of the world's greatest universities, Princeton was ranked 6th. In
the 2016/17 _QS World University Rankings_ it was ranked 11th overall in the
world.

In the "America's Top Colleges" rankings by _Forbes_ in 2016, Princeton
University was ranked third among all national colleges and universities,
after holding the number one position for a number of years.

In the 2015 _U.S. News & World Report_ "Graduate School Rankings", all
thirteen of Princeton's doctoral programs evaluated were ranked in their
respective top 20, 8 of them in the top 5, and 4 of them in the top spot
(Economics, History, Mathematics, Sociology).[132]

In _Princeton Review'_ s rankings of "softer" aspects of students' college
experience, Princeton University was ranked first in "Students Happy with
Financial Aid" and third in "Happiest Students", behind Clemson and
Brown.[133]

Princeton was ranked the 360th top college in the United States by Payscale
and CollegeNet's Social Mobility Index college rankings.[134]

Princeton was ranked 7th among 300 Best World Universities in 2011 compiled by
Human Resources & Labor Review (HRLR) on Measurements of World's Top 300
Universities Graduates' Performance .[135]

Princeton University has an IBM BlueGeneL supercomputer, called _Orangena_ ,
which was ranked as the 89th fastest computer in the world in 2005 (LINPACK
performance of 4713 compared to 12250 for other U.S. universities and 280600
for the top-ranked supercomputer, belonging to the U.S. Department of
Energy).[136][ _needs update_ ]

### Institutes[edit]

The Princeton campus, December 2016.

The Princeton campus, December 2016.

#### Princeton Environmental Institute[edit]

The Princeton Environmental Institute (PEI) is an "interdisciplinary center of
environmental research, education, and outreach" at Princeton
University.[137][138][139]

PEI was started in 1994.[137][139] About 90 faculty members at Princeton
University are affiliated with it.[140]

##### PEI research centers[edit]

The Princeton Environmental Institute has the following research centers:[141]

  * Carbon Mitigation Initiative (CMI): This is a 15-year-long partnership between PEI and British Petroleum with the goal of finding solutions to problems related to climate change.[141][142] The Stabilization Wedge Game has been created as part of this initiative.[143]
  * Center for BioComplexity (CBC)[141][144]
  * Cooperative Institute for Climate Science (CICS): This is a collaboration with the National Oceanographic and Atmospheric Administration's Geophysical Fluid Dynamics Laboratory.[141][145]
  * Energy Systems Analysis Group[141][146]
  * Grand Challenges[141][147]

##### PEI reception[edit]

Scholars from PEI have often been quoted in publications such as the _New York
Times_[148] and the _Wall Street Journal_.[149]

##  Student life and culture[edit]

The Princeton University Band lobstering next to James FitzGerald's _Fountain
of Freedom_ sculpture at the Woodrow Wilson School

A typical fountain at Princeton University

University housing is guaranteed to all undergraduates for all four years.
More than 98 percent of students live on campus in dormitories.[150] Freshmen
and sophomores must live in residential colleges, while juniors and seniors
typically live in designated upperclassman dormitories. The actual dormitories
are comparable, but only residential colleges have dining halls. Nonetheless,
any undergraduate may purchase a meal plan and eat in a residential college
dining hall. Recently, upperclassmen have been given the option of remaining
in their college for all four years. Juniors and seniors also have the option
of living off-campus, but high rent in the Princeton area encourages almost
all students to live in university housing. Undergraduate social life revolves
around the residential colleges and a number of coeducational eating clubs,
which students may choose to join in the spring of their sophomore year.
Eating clubs, which are not officially affiliated with the university, serve
as dining halls and communal spaces for their members and also host social
events throughout the academic year.

Princeton's six residential colleges host a variety of social events and
activities, guest speakers, and trips. The residential colleges also sponsor
trips to New York for undergraduates to see ballets, operas, Broadway shows,
sports events, and other activities. The eating clubs, located on Prospect
Avenue, are co-ed organizations for upperclassmen. Most upperclassmen eat
their meals at one of the eleven eating clubs. Additionally, the clubs serve
as evening and weekend social venues for members and guests.

Princeton hosts two Model United Nations conferences, PMUNC[151] in the fall
for high school students and PICSim[152] in the spring for college students.
It also hosts the Princeton Invitational Speech and Debate tournament each
year at the end of November. Princeton also runs Princeton Model Congress, an
event that is held once a year in mid-November. The 4-day conference has high
school students from around the country as participants.

Although the school's admissions policy is need blind, Princeton, based on the
proportion of students who receive Pell Grants, was ranked as a school with
little economic diversity among all national universities ranked by _U.S. News
& World Report_.[153] While Pell figures are widely used as a gauge of the
number of low-income undergraduates on a given campus, the rankings article
cautions "the proportion of students on Pell Grants isn't a perfect measure of
an institution's efforts to achieve economic diversity," but goes on to say
that "still, many experts say that Pell figures are the best available gauge
of how many low-income undergrads there are on a given campus."

### Traditions[edit]

FitzRandolph Gates, which by tradition undergraduates do not exit until
graduation

The P-Rade in the 1970s, showing marchers from the class of 1913 including
Donald B. Fullerton on the right

  * _Arch Sings_ – Late-night concerts that feature one or several of Princeton's undergraduate _a cappella_ groups, such as the Princeton Nassoons, Princeton Tigertones, and the Princeton Footnotes. The free concerts take place in one of the larger arches on campus. Most are held in Blair Arch or Class of 1879 Arch.
  * _Bonfire_ – Ceremonial bonfire that takes place in Cannon Green behind Nassau Hall. It is held only if Princeton beats both Harvard University and Yale University at football in the same season. The most recent bonfire was lighted on November 23, 2013.[154]
  * _Bicker_ – Selection process for new members that is employed by selective eating clubs. Prospective members, or bickerees, are required to perform a variety of activities at the request of current members.[155]
  * _Cane Spree_ – An athletic competition between freshmen and sophomores that is held in the fall. The event centers on cane wrestling, where a freshman and a sophomore will grapple for control of a cane. This commemorates a time in the 1870s when sophomores, angry with the freshmen who strutted around with fancy canes, stole all of the canes from the freshmen, hitting them with their own canes in the process.[156]
  * _The Clapper_ or _Clapper Theft_ – The act of climbing to the top of Nassau Hall to steal the bell clapper, which rings to signal the start of classes on the first day of the school year. For safety reasons, the clapper has been removed permanently.
  * _Class Jackets_ ( _Beer Jackets_ ) – Each graduating class designs a Class Jacket that features its class year. The artwork is almost invariably dominated by the school colors and tiger motifs.
  * _Communiversity_ – An annual street fair with performances, arts and crafts, and other activities that attempts to foster interaction between the university community and residents of the Princeton.
  * _Dean's Date_ – The Tuesday at the end of each semester when all written work is due. This day signals the end of reading period and the beginning of final examinations. Traditionally, undergraduates gather outside McCosh Hall before the 5:00 PM deadline to cheer on fellow students who have left their work to the very last minute.[157]
  * _FitzRandolph Gates_ – At the end of Princeton's graduation ceremony, the new graduates process out through the main gate of the university as a symbol of the fact that they are leaving college. According to tradition, anyone who exits campus through the FitzRandolph Gates before his or her own graduation date will not graduate.[158][159]
  * _Gilding the Lily_ – Promotion ceremony at the 25th reunion of a class. Alumnae of the University (or "Tiger Lilies") enjoy the courting of male classmates, amid song and much drink (see Newman's Day). Traditional chants include "In Princeton Town the Youth abound, and do young Tigers make. Women return as Gilded Lilies, the men as Frosted Flakes".
  * _Holder Howl_ – The midnight before Dean's Date, students from Holder Hall and elsewhere gather in the Holder courtyard and take part in a minute-long, communal primal scream to vent frustration from studying with impromptu, late night noise making.[160]
  * _Houseparties_ – Formal parties that are held simultaneously by all of the eating clubs at the end of the spring term.
  * _Ivy stones_ \- Class memorial stones placed on the exterior walls of academic buildings around the campus.
  * _Lawnparties_ – Parties that feature live bands that are held simultaneously by all of the eating clubs at the start of classes and at the conclusion of the academic year.
  * _Princeton Locomotive_ – Chant traditionally used by Princetonians to acknowledge a particular year or class. It goes: "HIP!! HIP!! Rah! Rah! Rah! TIGER! TIGER! TIGER! SIS! SIS! SIS! BOOM! BOOM! BOOM! Bahhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhhh PRINCETON! PRINCETON! PRINCETON!"[161] Following it are three chants of the class that is being acknowledged. It is commonly heard at Opening Exercises in the fall as alumni and current students welcome the freshman class, as well as the P-rade in the spring at Princeton Reunions.
  * _Newman's Day_ – Students attempt to drink 24 beers in the 24 hours of April 24. According to the _New York Times_ , "the day got its name from an apocryphal quote attributed to Paul Newman: '24 beers in a case, 24 hours in a day. Coincidence? I think not.'"[162] Newman had spoken out against the tradition, however.[163]
  * _Nude Olympics_ – Annual nude and partially nude frolic in Holder Courtyard that takes place during the first snow of the winter. Started in the early 1970s, the Nude Olympics went co-educational in 1979 and gained much notoriety with the American press. For safety reasons, the administration banned the Olympics in 2000 to the chagrin of students.[164][165]
  * _Prospect 11_ – The act of drinking a beer at all 11 eating clubs in a single night.
  * _P-rade_ – Traditional parade of alumni and their families. They process through campus by class year during Reunions.[166]
  * _Reunions_ – Massive annual gathering of alumni held the weekend before graduation.

##  Athletics[edit]

Princeton supports organized athletics at three levels: varsity
intercollegiate, club intercollegiate, and intramural. It also provides "a
variety of physical education and recreational programs" for members of the
Princeton community. According to the athletics program's mission statement,
Princeton aims for its students who participate in athletics to be "'student
athletes' in the fullest sense of the phrase."[167] Most undergraduates
participate in athletics at some level.[168]

Princeton's colors are orange and black. The school's athletes are known as
_Tigers_ , and the mascot is a tiger. The Princeton administration considered
naming the mascot in 2007, but the effort was dropped in the face of alumni
opposition.[169]

### Varsity[edit]

Main article: Princeton Tigers

Princeton vs. Lehigh football, September 2007

Princeton is an NCAA Division I school. Its athletic conference is the Ivy
League. Princeton hosts 38 men's and women's varsity sports.[168] The largest
varsity sport is rowing, with almost 150 athletes.[52]

Princeton's football team has a long and storied history. Princeton played
against Rutgers University in the first intercollegiate football game in the
U.S. on Nov 6, 1869. By a score of 6–4, Rutgers won the game, which was played
by rules similar to modern rugby.[170] Today Princeton is a member of the
Football Championship Subdivision of NCAA Division I.[171] As of the end of
the 2010 season, Princeton had won 26 national football championships, more
than any other school.[172]

Bill Bradley, Hall of Fame basketball player, Rhodes scholar, and three-term
U.S. Senator

The men's basketball program is noted for its success under Pete Carril, the
head coach from 1967 to 1996. During this time, Princeton won 13 Ivy League
titles and made 11 NCAA tournament appearances.[173] Carril introduced the
Princeton offense, an offensive strategy that has since been adopted by a
number of college and professional basketball teams.[174] Carril's final
victory at Princeton came when the Tigers beat UCLA, the defending national
champion, in the opening round of the 1996 NCAA tournament,[174] in what is
considered one of the greatest upsets in the history of the tournament.[175]
Recently Princeton tied the record for the fewest points in a Division I game
since the institution of the three-point line in 1986–87, when the Tigers
scored 21 points in a loss against Monmouth University on Dec 14, 2005.[176]

Princeton women's soccer team advanced to the NCAA Division I Women's Soccer
Championship semi-finals in 2004, the only Ivy League team to do so in a
64-team tournament.[177] The season was led by former U.S. National Team
member, Esmeralda Negron, Olympic medalist Canadian National Team member Diana
Matheson, and coach Julie Shackford.[178] The Tigers men's soccer team was
coached for many years by Princeton alumnus and future United States men's
national team manager Bob Bradley.

The men's water polo team is currently a dominant force in the Collegiate
Water Polo Association, having reached the Final Four in two of the last three
years. Similarly, the men's lacrosse program enjoyed a period of dominance
1992–2001, during which time it won six national championships.[179]

### Club and intramural[edit]

Princeton students after a freshman vs. sophomores snowball fight in 1893

In addition to varsity sports, Princeton hosts about 35 club sports
teams.[168] Princeton's rugby team is organized as a club sport.[180]

Each year, nearly 300 teams participate in intramural sports at
Princeton.[181] Intramurals are open to members of Princeton's faculty, staff,
and students, though a team representing a residential college or eating club
must consist only of members of that college or club. Several leagues with
differing levels of competitiveness are available.[182]

## Songs[edit]

Notable among a number of songs commonly played and sung at various events
such as commencement, convocation, and athletic games is Princeton Cannon
Song, the Princeton University fight song.

Bob Dylan wrote "Day of The Locusts" (for his 1970 album _New Morning_ ) about
his experience of receiving an honorary doctorate from the University. It is a
reference to the negative experience he had and it mentions the Brood X cicada
infestation Princeton experienced that June 1970.

### "Old Nassau"[edit]

Main article: Old Nassau

|

Old Nassau  
  
---|---  
  
* * *

_Problems playing this file? Seemedia help._  
  
"Old Nassau" has been Princeton University's anthem since 1859. Its words were
written that year by a freshman, Harlan Page Peck, and published in the March
issue of the _Nassau Literary Review_ (the oldest student publication at
Princeton and also the second oldest undergraduate literary magazine in the
country). The words and music appeared together for the first time in _Songs
of Old Nassau_ , published in April 1859. Before the Langlotz tune was
written, the song was sung to _Auld Lang Syne'_ s melody, which also
fits.[183]

However, Old Nassau does not only refer to the university's anthem. It can
also refer to Nassau Hall, the building that was built in 1756 and named after
William III of the House of Orange-Nassau. When built, it was the largest
college building in North America. It served briefly as the capitol of the
United States when the Continental Congress convened there in the summer of
1783. By metonymy, the term can refer to the university as a whole. Finally,
it can also refer to a chemical reaction that is dubbed "Old Nassau reaction"
because the solution turns orange and then black.[184]

## Notable alumni and faculty[edit]

The Princeton University Class of 1879, which included Woodrow Wilson, Mahlon
Pitney, Daniel Barringer, and Charles Talcott.

Main article: List of Princeton University people

U.S. Presidents James Madison and Woodrow Wilson and Vice President Aaron Burr
graduated from Princeton, as did Michelle Obama, the former First Lady of the
United States. Former Chief Justice of the United States Oliver Ellsworth was
an alumnus, as are current U.S. Supreme Court Associate Justices Samuel Alito,
Elena Kagan, and Sonia Sotomayor.

Princeton graduates played a major role in the American Revolution, including
the lives of the first and last Colonels on the Patriot side Philip Johnston
and Nathaniel Scudder, as well as the highest ranking civilian leader on the
British side David Mathews.

Notable graduates of Princeton's School of Engineering and Applied Science
include Apollo astronaut and commander of Apollo 12 Pete Conrad, Amazon CEO
and founder Jeff Bezos, Chairman of Google Eric Schmidt, and Lisa P. Jackson,
former Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency.

Actors Jimmy Stewart, Wentworth Miller, José Ferrer, David Duchovny, and
Brooke Shields graduated from Princeton as well as composer and pianist
Richard Aaker Trythall. Soccer alumna, Diana Matheson, scored the game-winning
goal that earned Canada their Olympic bronze medal in 2012.

Writers Booth Tarkington, F. Scott Fitzgerald, and Eugene O'Neill attended but
did not graduate with a degree. Selden Edwards and Will Stanton graduated with
English degrees. American novelist Jodi Picoult graduated in 1987.

Notable graduate alumni include Imee Marcos, Pedro Pablo Kuczynski, Richard
Feynman, Lee Iacocca, John Nash, Alonzo Church, Alan Turing, Terence Tao,
Edward Witten, John Milnor, John Bardeen, Steven Weinberg, John Tate, and
David Petraeus. Royals such as Prince Ghazi bin Muhammad, Prince Moulay Hicham
of Morocco, Prince Turki bin Faisal Al Saud, and Queen Noor of Jordan also
have attended Princeton.

Notable faculty members include P. Adams Sitney, Angus Deaton, Joyce Carol
Oates, Cornel West, Robert Keohane, Anthony Grafton, Peter Singer, Jhumpa
Lahiri, Michael Mullen, Robert P. George, and Andrew Wiles. Notable former
faculty members include John Witherspoon, Walter Kaufmann, John von Neumann,
Ben Bernanke, Paul Krugman, Joseph Henry, Toni Morrison, John P. Lewis, and
alumnus Woodrow Wilson, who also served as president of the University
1902–1910.

Albert Einstein, though on the faculty at the Institute for Advanced Study
rather than at Princeton, came to be associated with the university through
frequent lectures and visits on the campus.

William P. Ross, Principal Chief of the Cherokee Nation and founding editor of
the _Cherokee Advocate_, graduated in 1844.

##  See also[edit]

  * Higher education in New Jersey
  * Princeton University in popular culture
  * Big Three (colleges)

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** Princeton is the fourth institution of higher learning to obtain a collegiate charter, conduct classes, or grant degrees, based upon dates that do not seem to be in dispute. Princeton and the University of Pennsylvania both claim the fourth oldest founding date and the University of Pennsylvania once claimed 1749 as its founding date, making it fifth oldest, but in 1899 its trustees adopted a resolution which asserted 1740 as the founding date.[9][10] To further complicate the comparison of founding dates, a Log College was operated by William and Gilbert Tennent, the Presbyterian ministers, in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, from 1726 until 1746 and it was once common to assert a formal connection between it and the College of New Jersey, which would justify Princeton pushing its founding date back to 1726. However, Princeton has never done so and a Princeton historian says that the facts "do not warrant" such an interpretation.[11] Columbia University was chartered and began collegiate classes in 1754. Columbia considers itself to be the fifth institution of higher learning in the United States, based upon its charter date of 1754 and Penn's charter date of 1755.[12]
  2. **^** Princeton Theological Seminary and Westminster Choir College maintain cross-registration programs with the university.

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _Princeton Profile_ (PDF) (2015-16 ed.). Princeton. Retrieved October 12, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  2. **^** "Member Directory". NAICU. P (list by institution). Archived from the original on November 9, 2015. Retrieved  October 12, 2015. 
  3. **^** As of October 9, 2017. "Princeton endowment earns 12.5 percent return". Princeton University. 2017. 
  4. **^** "Facts & Figures". Princeton University. Retrieved  March 10, 2017. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ "Common Data Set 2016-2017" (PDF). Princeton University. 
  6. **^** "Princeton University". _Geographic Names Information System_. United States Geological Survey.  
  7. **^** _Guide to Princeton University's Graphic Identity_ (PDF). Princeton University Trademark Licensing. December 15, 2010. Retrieved March 14, 2017. 
  8. **^** "Princeton in the American Revolution". Princeton University, Office of Communications. Retrieved  May 7, 2007. the fourth college to be established in British North America. 
  9. **^** "Building Penn's Brand", _Gazette_ , University of Pennsylvania 
  10. **^** "Princeton vs. Penn: Which is the Older Institution?" (FAQ). Princeton. February 5, 2003. Archived from the original on March 19, 2003.  
  11. **^** "Log College". Princeton. 1978. Archived from the original on November 17, 2005.  
  12. **^** _History_, Columbia  
  13. **^** " "Princeton's History" — Parent's Handbook, 2005–06". Princeton University. August 2005. Archived from the original on September 4, 2006. Retrieved September 20, 2006. 
  14. **^** "About Princeton". Princeton University, Office of Communications. Retrieved  January 28, 2010. 
  15. **^** "College Endowment Rankings". Retrieved  April 28, 2013. 
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _The Daily Princetonian_ , August 16, 2010. Archived August 20, 2010, at the Wayback Machine.
  17. **^** "Statistics".  
  18. **^** "Princeton University 250th Anniversary Celebration Collection". _Library Finding Aids_. Princeton University. Retrieved  11 November 2012. 
  19. **^** _Princeton Alumni Weekly_. 1933. p. 487.  
  20. **^** Morrison, Jeffry H (2005), _John Witherspoon and the Founding of the American Republic_  
  21. **^** University, Princeton. "Ashbel Green – The Presidents of Princeton University". Retrieved June 29, 2015. 
  22. **^** "Princeton Theological Seminary". Archived from the original on May 19, 2015. Retrieved  June 29, 2015. 
  23. **^** "FAQ Princeton Theological Seminary". _Seeley G. Mudd Manuscript Library_. Princeton. April 24, 2012. Archived from the original on May 19, 2015. Retrieved  October 13, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  24. **^** "Partnerships, Exchanges, and Cross-Registration". _Princeton University Graduate School_. Princeton. April 15, 2014. Archived from the original on June 7, 2014.  [ _self-published source_ ]
  25. **^** Oberdorfer, Don (1995). _Princeton University: The First 250 Years_ (First ed.). Trustees of Princeton University. p.  24\. ISBN 0-691-01122-2. 
  26. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ Leitch, Alexander (1979). "A Princeton Companion: Nassau Hall". Princeton University Press. Retrieved Jun 2, 2011. 
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Leitch, Alexander (1978). _McCosh, James_. _A Princeton Companion_. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press. ISBN 9780691046549. OCLC 4193433.  
  28. **^** Armstrong, April. "When Did the College of New Jersey Change to Princeton University?". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Princeton University. Retrieved  6 July 2016. 
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Oberdorfer, Don (1995). "A Princeton Chronology". _Princeton University: The First 250 Years_ (First ed.). Trustees of Princeton University. pp.  268–269. ISBN 0-691-01122-2. 
  30. **^** "Historical Photograph Collection, Lake Carnegie Construction Photographs, circa 1905–1907". _Finding Aids_. Princeton. Retrieved  February 19, 2012. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  31. **^** "Princeton Eating Club Loses Bid to Continue Ban on Women", _The Los Angeles Times_ , Associated Press, p. A4, January 23, 1991 
  32. **^** "Princeton song goes coed", _The New York Times_ , 1987-03-01 
  33. **^** "Princeton University - Presidential committee makes recommendations to strengthen student leadership". Retrieved  June 29, 2015. 
  34. **^** "America's most beautiful college campuses". _Travel+Leisure_. Travelandleisure.com. September 2011. Retrieved  2014-02-16. 
  35. **^** "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter II: The College Expands: 1802–1846". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  36. **^** "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter III: Princeton at Mid-Century, 1846–1868". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  37. **^** "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter IV: The McCosh Presidency, 1868–1888". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  38. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter V: The Rise of the Collegiate Gothic". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  39. **^** "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter VI: Spires and Gargoyles, The Princeton Campus 1900–1917". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  40. **^** "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter VII: Princeton Between the Wars, 1919–1939". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  41. **^** "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter VIII: Princeton at Mid-Century: Campus Architecture, 1933–1960". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  42. **^** "Princeton University: An Interactive Campus History. Chapter IX: The Sixties". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  43. **^** Lack, Kelly (September 11, 2008). "Lewis Library makes a grand debut". _The Daily Princetonian_. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. 
  44. **^** Leitch, Alexander (1978). "A Princeton Companion: Spelman Halls". Princeton University Press. Retrieved Jun 2, 2011. 
  45. **^** "Old is new at Princeton". _World Architecture News_. Dec 19, 2007. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  46. **^** "Frist Campus Center Iconography". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  47. **^** Pearson, Clifford A. (Nov 2003). "Carl Icahn Laboratory". _Architectural Record_. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  48. **^** Leitch, Alexander. "A Princeton Companion: Putnam Collection of Sculpture". Retrieved Jun 2, 2011. 
  49. **^** Peterson, Megan. "Princeton sculpture enriches beauty and character of campus". _Princeton University website_. Retrieved  November 30, 2011. 
  50. **^** Leitch, Alexander (1978). "A Princeton Companion: Carnegie Lake". Retrieved Jun 2, 2011. 
  51. **^** "The Richest Man in the World: Andrew Carnegie. Philanthropy 101: Scourge of the Campus". PBS American Experience. Retrieved  Jun 2, 2011. 
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Princeton University Rowing: Recruiting Information". Princeton University. Archived from the original on July 20, 2011. Retrieved  June 2, 2011. 
  53. **^** Hageman, John Frelinghuysen (1879). _History of Princeton and Its Institutions_. **1** (2nd ed.). Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott  & Co. p. 139. 
  54. **^** Hageman, John Frelinghuysen (1879). _History of Princeton and Its Institutions_. **2** (2nd ed.). Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott  & Co. pp. 317–8. 
  55. **^** Hageman, John Frelinghuysen (1879). _History of Princeton and Its Institutions_. **2** (2nd ed.). Philadelphia: J. B. Lippincott & Co. pp. 318–9.  
  56. **^** Carroll, Kate (October 5, 2006). "Vandals spraypaint campus Rutgers red". _The Daily Princetonian_. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. 
  57. **^** "Official Athletic Site". _scarletknights.com_. CBS Interactive. The Cannon War. Archived from the original on October 2, 2015. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. 
  58. **^** "Dear Mr. Mudd: Whose Cannon Is It?". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Retrieved  21 December 2015. 
  59. **^** "Bonfire - Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students - Bonfire". Princeton.edu. 2013-11-26. Retrieved  2014-02-16. 
  60. **^** Bradner, Ryan (July 14, 2003). "Nassau Hall: National history, center of campus". _The Daily Princetonian_. In the beginning. Archived from the original on December 22, 2015. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. 
  61. **^** "Buildings of the Department of State: Nassau Hall, Princeton, NJ". US State Department. Retrieved  Jun 3, 2011. 
  62. **^** "A Brief History of the Architecture of Nassau Hall". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Retrieved  21 December 2015. 
  63. **^** Wilentz, Sean (May 16, 2001). "Nassau Hall, Princeton, New Jersey". _Princeton Alumni Weekly_. Retrieved  Jun 3, 2011. 
  64. **^** "Commencement Information – Overview". Office of the Vice President & Secretary, Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 3, 2011. 
  65. **^** "New Jersey – Mercer County". National Register of Historic Places. Retrieved  Jun 3, 2011. 
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Leitch, Alexander (1978). "West, Andrew Fleming". _A Princeton Companion_. Princeton, New Jersey: Princeton University Press. ISBN 9780691046549. OCLC 4193433.  [ _self-published source?_ ]
  67. **^** Sacks, Benjamin (June 2011). "Harvard's "Constructed Utopia" and the Culture of Deception: The Expansion toward the Charles River, 1902-1932". The New England Quarterly. Retrieved November 13, 2014. 
  68. **^** "The American Theatre Wing's Tony Awards – Official Website by IBM". Tony awards. May 1, 2000. Retrieved  February 19, 2012. 
  69. **^** Bush, Sara. "The University Chapel". Princeton University. Retrieved Jun 6, 2011. 
  70. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Milliner, Matthew J. (Spring 2009). " _Primus inter pares_ : Albert M. Friend and the argument of the Princeton University Chapel". _The Princeton University Library Chronicle_. **70** (3). pp.  470–517. 
  71. **^** "Religion: Princeton's chapel". _Time_. Jun 11, 1928. Retrieved  Jun 6, 2011. 
  72. **^** Greenwood, Kathryn Federici (Mar 13, 2002). "Features: Chapel gets facelift and a new dean". _Princeton Alumni Weekly_.  
  73. **^** Stillwell, Richard (1971). _The Chapel of Princeton University_. Princeton, NJ: Princeton University Press. p. 11.  
  74. **^** Stinnard, Michelle (Feb 10, 2006). "Restoration secures chapel at Ivy League campus". _Stone World_. Retrieved  Jun 7, 2011. 
  75. **^** Stillwell 1971, pp. 7–9.
  76. **^** "Open Facilities – A Princeton Profile". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 10, 2011. [ _dead link_ ][ _self-published source_ ]
  77. **^** "Chapel Architecture and Features". _Orange Key Virtual Tour_. Princeton. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  78. **^** "University Chapel". Princeton University Office of Religious Life. Retrieved  Jun 7, 2011. 
  79. **^** The Aquinas Institute. "Schedule and Events". _The Aquinas Institute: Princeton University's Catholic Chaplaincy_ (blog). Blogger. Holy Mass Schedule. Archived from the original on August 30, 2011. Retrieved  Jun 7, 2011. 
  80. **^** "Prayer". _Princeton University's Catholic Campus Ministry_. The Aquinas Institute. Sacraments. Retrieved  October 17, 2015. 
  81. **^** "Murray-Dodge Hall". _Religious LIfe_. Princeton. Retrieved  October 17, 2015. Beginning August 24, 2015, the Office of Religious Life is moving temporarily to Green Hall...while Murray-Dodge Hall is renovated. [ _self-published source_ ]
  82. **^** "Office of Religious Life Café". _Religious Life_. Princeton University. Retrieved  October 17, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  83. **^** "Places of Peace". _Religious Life_. Princeton University. Retrieved  October 17, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  84. **^** "Deans of Religious Life". _Religious LIfe_. Princeton. Retrieved  October 17, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  85. **^** "Hindu and Muslim life coordinators named". _Princeton University News_. Archived from the original on November 4, 2013. Retrieved  February 15, 2013. 
  86. **^** _Apartment housing_, Princeton University , retrieved February 10, 2012 
  87. **^** "Princeton University adopts its Sustainability Plan in February 2008". _Sustainability at Princeton_. Princeton University. Archived from the original on November 15, 2008. Retrieved  June 8, 2009. [ _self-published source_ ]
  88. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "All Goals and Key Progress". _Sustainability at Princeton_. Princeton University. Retrieved  October 17, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  89. **^** "Greenhouse Gas Emissions Reductions". Princeton University. Archived from the original on December 5, 2008. Retrieved  June 8, 2009. [ _self-published source_ ]
  90. **^** "Report on Sustainability 2009". _Princeton University Reports_. Princeton University. October 27, 2010. Retrieved  April 15, 2010. 
  91. **^** "Green Purchasing at Princeton". Princeton University. Archived from the original on December 24, 2009. Retrieved  June 8, 2009. 
  92. **^** Osellame, Julia (March 29, 2007). "Green is the new orange: Princeton conserves". _The Daily Princetonian_. Archived from the original on January 1, 2016. Retrieved  October 18, 2015. 
  93. **^** "Colleges with the Biggest Endowment Per Student". _CNBC.com_. Praefcke, Andreas (photo credit). 2011. Archived from the original on May 31, 2013.  
  94. **^** Epstein, Jennifer (October 27, 2006). "Endowment Climbs Past $13 Billion". _The Daily Princetonian_.  
  95. **^** "Departments & Programs". Princeton University. October 1, 2015. Retrieved  October 19, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  96. **^** "About Us". _Honor Committee_. Princeton University. May 19, 2015. Role of Honor Committee. Retrieved  October 19, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  97. **^** "Honor Code". _The Student Guide to Princeton_. Princeton University. Archived from the original on June 15, 2010. Retrieved  June 1, 2011. [ _self-published source_ ][ _dead link_ ]
  98. **^** _Honor Code_ (YouTube video). music and lyrics by Peter Mills. 2008. Retrieved  October 23, 2015. 
  99. **^** "Committee on Discipline". _ODUS: Office of the Dean of Undergraduate Students_. Princeton University. August 25, 2015. Retrieved  October 23, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  100. **^** "Acknowledging Your Sources". _Academic Integrity_. Princeton University. August 2011. Retrieved  October 23, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  101. **^** [1]
  102. **^** [2]
  103. **^** [3]
  104. **^** Staff (September 18, 2006). "Princeton to end early admission". Princeton University. Retrieved October 25, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  105. **^** Staff (February 24, 2011). "Princeton to reinstate early admission program". Princeton University. Retrieved October 25, 2015. [ _self-published source_ ]
  106. **^** Thomas, G. Scott (December 12, 2011). "Princeton is the most selective college in the Eastern US". The Business Journal. Retrieved October 25, 2015. 
  107. **^** Clark, Jane Bennett (Nov 9, 2010). "Private Colleges". MSN Money. Archived from the original on December 27, 2009. Retrieved June 1, 2011. 
  108. **^** "Questions and Answers". _Princeton in Brieif_. Princeton University. April 28, 2009. International Students. Archived from the original on April 27, 2010.  [ _self-published source_ ][ _dead link_ ]
  109. **^** "America's Best Colleges 2008: Least Debt: National Universities". _U.S. News & World Report_. 2008. Retrieved February 10, 2008. 
  110. **^** "Kiplinger's Best College Values: Private Universities". _Kiplinger_. December 2016.  
  111. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "On grade deflation". _The Daily Princetonian_. 2009. Retrieved  June 24, 2010. 
  112. **^** Rampell, Catherine (June 21, 2010). "In Law Schools, Grades Go Up, Just Like That". _New York Times_. Retrieved  June 24, 2010. 
  113. **^** "Does Obvious Grade Inflation Hurt Students". Barking up the wrong tree. 2010. Retrieved  June 24, 2010. 
  114. **^** Foderaro, Lisa (January 29, 2010). "At Princeton University, Grumbling About Grade Deflation". _New York Times_. Retrieved  January 28, 2011. 
  115. **^** Mulvaney, Nicole (7 August 2014). "No more A quotas: Faculty committee recommends Princeton University change its grading policy". _nj.com_. Retrieved  5 June 2015. 
  116. **^** "Princeton University - Valerie Smith appointed president of Swarthmore College". _www.princeton.edu_. Retrieved  2017-04-29. 
  117. **^** "Report from the Ad Hoc Committee to Review Policies Regarding Assessment and Grading" (PDF). 5 August 2014. Retrieved 5 June 2015. 
  118. **^** Windemuth, Anna (6 October 2014). "After faculty vote, grade deflation policy officially dead". _The Daily Princetonian_. Retrieved  5 June 2015. 
  119. **^** "Firestone Library". Princeton University. Retrieved  July 30, 2006. 
  120. **^** "The Nation's Largest Libraries: A Listing By Volumes Held – ALA Library Fact Sheet Number 22". American Library Association. May 2009. Archived from the original on April 13, 2009. Retrieved  August 12, 2009. 
  121. **^** "Libraries". Princeton.edu. October 27, 2010. Archived from the original on January 10, 2008. Retrieved  February 19, 2012. 
  122. **^** "Princeton University Joins Google Literature-Scan Project Archived January 4, 2013, at Archive.is". Reuters, February 6, 2007.
  123. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  124. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  125. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  126. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  127. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  128. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  129. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  130. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  131. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Princeton University - U.S. News Best Grad School Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 8 June 2017. 
  132. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved April 9, 2017. 
  133. **^** "Latest College Rankings List The Greenest". _CBS News_. July 29, 2008.  
  134. **^** "Social Mobility Index". _Social Mobility Index_. CollegeNet and PayScale. 2014. Retrieved  June 5, 2015. 
  135. **^** "World Top 300 Universities Alumni Ranking". Chasecareer.net. Archived from the original on 2011-05-11. Retrieved  2012-06-06. 
  136. **^** "TOP500 Supercomputing Sites". Retrieved  June 25, 2006. 
  137. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "About the Princeton Environmental Institute". Princeton Environmental Institute, Princeton University. Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  138. **^** Stacey, Andrew (November 7, 2011). "Princeton Environmental Institute". Retrieved May 25, 2014. 
  139. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Princeton Environmental Institute (PEI)". Think Tank Map. Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  140. **^** "Directory". Princeton Environmental Institute. Archived from the original on May 25, 2014. Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  141. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ "Research Centers". Princeton Environmental Institute. Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  142. **^** "Carbon Mitigation Initiative". Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  143. **^** "Stabilization Wedges". Princeton Environmental Institute. Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  144. **^** "Center for BioComplexity". Archived from the original on May 29, 2009. Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  145. **^** "Cooperative Institute for Climate Science". Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  146. **^** "Energy Systems Action Group". Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  147. **^** "Grand Challenges". Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  148. **^** "princeton+environmental+institute"+site%3Anytimes.com "Google Search results for "princeton environmental institute" on the _New York Times_ website". Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  149. **^** "Google Search results for "princeton environmental institute" on the _Wall Street Journal_ website". Retrieved  May 25, 2014. 
  150. **^** "Housing and Dining". Princeton University. Archived from the original on October 17, 2008. Retrieved  June 20, 2011. 
  151. **^** "Princeton Model United Nations Conference (PMUNC)". Retrieved  June 25, 2006. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  152. **^** "Princeton Interactive Crisis Simulation (PICSIM)". Archived from the original on August 20, 2008. Retrieved  June 25, 2006. 
  153. **^** "Economic Diversity Among All National Universities". Archived from the original on August 26, 2009. Retrieved  October 30, 2008. 
  154. **^** "Bonfire!!!". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Retrieved  12 June 2015. 
  155. **^** "Eating Clubs and "The Street "". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Retrieved  12 June 2015. 
  156. **^** "Cane-Spree the history". _Clockwork Orange_. Princeton University. Archived from the original on April 22, 2008.  
  157. **^** "Dean's Date". _Virtual tour_. Princeton. Archived from the original on August 19, 2007. Retrieved  July 5, 2008. 
  158. **^** "Can Nathaniel FitzRandolph's Descendants Attend Princeton University for Free?". Retrieved  12 June 2015. 
  159. **^** "Can Nathaniel FitzRandolph's Descendants Attend Princeton University for Free?". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Retrieved  21 December 2015. 
  160. **^** "Poler's Recess". _Ptoniana_. Princeton. Retrieved  July 5, 2008. 
  161. **^** "Songs and Cheers", _Football_, Princeton University  
  162. **^** Cheng, Jonathan (April 22, 2004). "Film Legend Bothered by Use of Name in Stunt at Princeton". _New York Times_.  
  163. **^** "Paul Newman urges Princeton to stop tradition of alcohol abuse in honour of his name". News Medical. April 24, 2004. Retrieved  February 19, 2012. 
  164. **^** "Nude", _Ptoniana_, eAlumni, archived from the original on 2012-07-30  
  165. **^** "Streaking and the Nude Olympics". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Retrieved  21 December 2015. 
  166. **^** "Reunions and the P-Rade". _Mudd Manuscript Library Blog_. Retrieved  12 June 2015. 
  167. **^** Princeton Athletic Communications. "Princeton University Mission Statement". Archived from the original on December 23, 2011. Retrieved June 1, 2011. 
  168. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Athletics & Fitness". Princeton University. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  169. **^** Breger, Esther (Sep 11, 2007). "Mascot revamped but still 'The Tiger'". _The Daily Princetonian_. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  170. **^** "The First Intercollegiate Game – November 6, 1869". Rutgers University Scarlet Knights. Archived from the original on November 28, 2006. Retrieved  June 2, 2011. 
  171. **^** "Princeton Tigers, Princeton Stadium". Football Championship Subdivision. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  172. **^** "Recognized National Championships by Team". College Football Data Warehouse. Archived from the original on September 20, 2010. Retrieved  June 1, 2011. 
  173. **^** "Pete Carril". NBA. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  174. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Branch, John (Mar 30, 2007). "Carril Is Yoda to Notion of Perpetual Motion". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  175. **^** "When underdogs dance". ESPN. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  176. **^** "Princeton loses lowest-scoring D-I game since 3-point line". ESPN. Associated Press. Dec 15, 2005. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  177. **^** "For Princeton and Ivy League, Final Four at Last". Retrieved  17 June 2015. 
  178. **^** Bernstein, Viv. "Princeton's Steep Climb Finally Ends". _New York Times_. New York Times. Retrieved  17 June 2015. 
  179. **^** "The NCAA Men's Lacrosse Championship, formerly known as the Wingate Memorial Champion". US Intercollegiate Lacrosse Association. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  180. **^** Laguna, Ben (Apr 3, 2008). "One of Princeton's oldest clubs flourishes". _The Daily Princetonian_. Retrieved  Jun 1, 2011. 
  181. **^** "The Student Guide to Princeton: Intramurals". Princeton University. Archived from the original on December 22, 2007.  
  182. **^** "General Information". Princeton University Campus Recreation. Archived from the original on March 1, 2011. Retrieved  June 1, 2011. 
  183. **^** "History of Old Nassau". Princeton. Retrieved  July 5, 2008. 
  184. **^** "The Old Nassau reaction". _Journal of Chemical Education_. ACS Publications and Division of Chemical Education. Retrieved  February 19, 2012. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Axtell, James. _The Making of Princeton University: From Woodrow Wilson to the Present_ (2006), 710 pp; highly detailed scholarly history.
  * Bradley, Stefan M., "The Southern-Most Ivy: Princeton University from Jim Crow Admissions to Anti-Apartheid Protests, 1794–1969," _American Studies_ 51 (Fall–Winter 2010), 109–30.
  * Bragdon, Henry. _Woodrow Wilson: The Academic Years_ (1967).
  * Kemeny, P. C. _Princeton in the Nation's Service: Religious Ideals and Educational Practice, 1868–1928_ (1998). 353 pp.
  * Noll, Mark A. _Princeton and the Republic, 1768–1822: The Search for a Christian Enlightenment in the Era of Samuel Stanhope Smith_ (1989). 340 pp.
  * Rhinehart, Raymond (2000), _Princeton University: The Campus Guide_ (guide to architecture)  , 188 pp.
  * Smith, Richard D (2005), _Princeton University_  , 128 pp.
  * Synnott, Marcia Graham (1979), _The Half-Opened Door: Discrimination and Admissions at Harvard, Yale, and Princeton, 1900–1970_  . 310 pp.
  * Wilson, Woodrow (1972–76), Link, Arthur S; et al., eds., _The Papers of Woodrow Wilson_ , 14–21 .
  * McLachlan, James (1976), _Princetonians, 1748–1768: A Biographical Dictionary_  . 706 pp. 
    * Harrison, Richard A (1981), _Princetonians, 1776–1783: A Biographical Dictionary_ , **2**  . 585 pp.
    * ——— (1981), _Princetonians, 1776–1783: A Biographical Dictionary_ , **3**  . 498 pp.
    * Woodward, Ruth L; Craven, Wesley Frank (1991), _Princetonians, 1784–1790: A Biographical Dictionary_  . 618 pp.
    * Looney, J Jefferson; Woodward, Ruth L (1991), _Princetonians, 1791–1794: A Biographical Dictionary_  . 677 pp.

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Princeton University**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Princeton Athletics website
  * Works written on the topic Princeton University at Wikisource

  * v
  * t
  * e

Princeton University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * Bendheim Center for Finance
  * PIIRS
  * Neuroscience Institute
  * Office of Population Research
  * Department of Psychology
  * Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory
  * Woodrow Wilson School of Public and International Affairs
  * East Asian Studies Department

|  
  
Residential colleges |

  * Butler College
  * Forbes College
  * Mathey College
  * Rockefeller College
  * Whitman College
  * Wilson College
  * Graduate College

  
  
Eating clubs |

  * Cannon Club
  * Cap and Gown Club
  * Charter Club
  * Cloister Inn
  * Colonial Club
  * Cottage Club
  * Ivy Club
  * Quadrangle Club
  * Terrace Club
  * Tiger Inn
  * Tower Club
  * _former:_ Campus Club

  
  
Campus |

  * Alexander Hall
  * Art Museum
  * Chapel
  * Cleveland Tower
  * Frist Campus Center
  * Joseph Henry House
  * Maclean House
  * Lake Carnegie
  * Library
  * McCarter Theatre
  * Nassau Hall
  * Princeton Branch (The Dinky)
  * Prospect House
  * _The Hedgehog and the Fox_ sculpture
  * Walter Lowrie House
  * Washington Road Elm Allée

  
  
Princetoniana |

  * Eating clubs
  * Evelyn College for Women
  * FitzRandolph Gate
  * History
  * List of Princeton University people
  * List of American Whig–Cliosophic Society people
  * Newman Day
  * _Old Nassau_
  * President
  * Princeton Club of New York
  * Princeton Law School
  * Reunions
  * Trustees
  * Jane Eliza Procter Fellowship

  
  
Publications |

  * _The Daily Princetonian_
  * _Princeton Tory_
  * _The Nassau Weekly_
  * _Princeton Alumni Weekly_
  * _Princeton Tiger Magazine_
  * Princeton University Press

  
  
Student life |

  * Nassoons
  * Footnotes
  * Tigertones
  * Katzenjammers
  * American Whig-Cliosophic Society
  * Glee Club
  * Theatre Intime
  * Triangle Club
  * Two Dickinson Street Co-op
  * _WPRB_

  
  
Athletics |

| Sports |

  * Ivy League
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Men's basketball
  * Women's basketball
  * Football
  * Men's ice hockey
  * Women's ice hockey
  * Men's lacrosse
  * Rugby

  
  
---|---  
Facilities |

  * Hobey Baker Rink
  * Bill Clarke Field
  * Class of 1952 Stadium
  * Dillon Gymnasium
  * Jadwin Gymnasium
  * University Field (defunct)
  * Palmer Stadium (defunct)
  * Princeton University Stadium
  * Roberts Stadium
  * Shea Rowing Center

  
  
Rivalries |

  * 1869 New Jersey vs. Rutgers football game
  * 1922 Princeton vs. Chicago football game
  * Rutgers–Princeton Cannon War

  
  
Spirit |

  * _The First Game_
  * "Princeton Cannon Song"
  * Princeton University Band
  * Winged football helmet

  
  
Related |

  * In popular culture

  
  
See also

    Princeton, New Jersey
    Presidents of Princeton University  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Presidents of Princeton University  
  
---  
  
  * Dickinson
  * Burr
  * Edwards
  * Davies
  * Finley
  * Witherspoon
  * Smith
  * Green
  * Carnahan
  * Maclean
  * McCosh
  * Patton
  * Wilson
  * Hibben
  * Dodds
  * Goheen
  * Bowen
  * Shapiro
  * Tilghman
  * Eisgruber

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Princeton, New Jersey  
  
---  
  
**Areas**

|  
  
Historic districts |

  * Princeton Historic District
  * Stony Brook Village
  * Jugtown
  * King's Highway
  * Kingston Mill
  * Mountain Avenue

  
  
Former municipalities |

  * Borough of Princeton
  * Princeton Township

  
  
**Education**  
  
Public schools |

  * Princeton Public Schools
    * Princeton High School
    * Witherspoon Street School for Colored Children (defunct)
  * Princeton Charter School

  
  
Independent schools |

  * Hun School
  * Lewis School
  * Princeton Academy of the Sacred Heart
  * Princeton Day
  * Princeton Friends
  * Princeton International School of Mathematics and Science
  * St. Paul's
  * Stuart Country Day

  
  
Colleges and universities |

  * Princeton University
  * Princeton Theological Seminary
  * Westminster Choir College
  * Evelyn College for Women (defunct)

  
  
Other education |

  * Institute for Advanced Study
  * Princeton Community Japanese Language School
  * Princeton Public Library
  * Princeton University Art Museum
  * Witherspoon Institute

  
  
**Other**  
  
Places of worship |

  * Miller Chapel
  * Nassau Christian Center
  * Nassau Presbyterian
  * Princeton United Methodist
  * Princeton University Chapel
  * Stone Hill Church
  * Stony Brook Meeting House
  * Trinity Episcopal

  
  
Parks and recreation |

  * Delaware and Raritan Canal
  * Herrontown Woods Arboretum
  * Jasna Polana
  * Lake Carnegie
  * Marquand Park
  * Mountain Lakes Preserve
  * Princeton Battlefield

  
  
Shopping and dining |

  * Nassau Street
  * Palmer Square
  * Elements
  * Hoagie Haven
  * Nassau Club
  * Nassau Inn
  * Peacock Inn
  * Princeton Record Exchange
  * Triumph Brewing

  
  
Performing arts |

  * Alexander Hall
  * Garden Theatre
  * McCarter Theatre
  * Princeton Symphony Orchestra
  * Williamson Voices

  
  
Media |

  * I Grew Up in Princeton
  * Comedy Minus One
  * Princeton Community Television
  * Princeton Packet
  * Town Topics

  
  
Other landmarks |

  * Albert Einstein House
  * Drumthwacket
  * Joseph Henry House
  * Donald Grant Herring Estate
  * Maclean House
  * Maybury Hill
  * Mercer Oak
  * Morven
  * Nassau Hall
  * Princeton Battle Monument
  * Princeton Cemetery
  * Princeton Railroad Station
  * Prospect House
  * Tusculum
  * Cottage Club
  * Washington Oak
  * Westland Mansion

  
  
Princeton addressed landmarks  
outside the municipality |

  * American Boychoir School
  * Chapin School
  * Educational Testing Service
  * Forrestal Village
  * MarketFair Mall
  * Princeton Airport
  * Princeton Plasma Physics Laboratory
  * Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
  * St. Joseph's Seminary (in Plainsboro; defunct)
  * Sarnoff Corporation
  * Terhune Orchards
  * Washington Road Elm Allée

  
  
**See also:** Princeton University and National Register of Historic Places
listings in Mercer County, New Jersey  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Ivy League  
  
---  
  
  * Brown Bears
  * Columbia Lions
  * Cornell Big Red
  * Dartmouth Big Green
  * Harvard Crimson
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Penn Quakers
  * Yale Bulldogs

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colonial colleges  
  
---  
  
  * Brown
  * Columbia
  * Dartmouth
  * Harvard
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rutgers
  * William & Mary
  * Yale

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in New Jersey  
  
---  
Public research universities |

  * Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey
    * New Brunswick
    * Newark
    * Camden
    * Rutgers Biomedical and Health Sciences
  * New Jersey Institute of Technology
  * Rowan University

  
  
State colleges and universities |

  * The College of New Jersey
  * Kean
  * Montclair State
  * New Jersey City
  * Ramapo
  * Stockton
  * Thomas Edison State
  * William Paterson

  
  
Independent four-year colleges |

  * Bloomfield
  * Caldwell
  * Centenary
  * College of Saint Elizabeth
  * Drew
  * Fairleigh Dickinson
  * Felician
  * Georgian Court
  * Monmouth
  * Princeton
  * Rider
  * Saint Peter's
  * Seton Hall
  * Stevens Institute of Technology

  
  
Community colleges |

  * Atlantic Cape
  * Bergen
  * Brookdale
  * Camden
  * Cumberland
  * Essex
  * Hudson
  * Mercer
  * Middlesex
  * Morris
  * Ocean
  * Passaic
  * Raritan Valley
  * Rowan College at Burlington County
  * Rowan College at Gloucester County
  * Salem
  * Sussex
  * Union
  * Warren

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

ECAC Hockey  
  
---  
Teams |

  * **Brown Bears**
    * men
    * women
  * **Clarkson Golden Knights**
    * men
    * women
  * **Colgate Raiders**
    * men
    * women
  * **Cornell Big Red**
    * men
    * women
  * **Dartmouth Big Green**
    * men
    * women
  * **Harvard Crimson**
    * men
    * women
  * **Princeton Tigers**
    * men
    * women
  * **Quinnipiac Bobcats**
    * men
    * women
  * **Rensselaer Engineers**
    * men
    * women
  * **St. Lawrence Saints**
    * men
    * women
  * **Union Dutchmen**
    * men
    * women
  * **Yale Bulldogs**
    * men
    * women

  
  
Venues |

  * Meehan Auditorium (Brown)
  * Cheel Arena (Clarkson)
  * Starr Arena (Colgate)
  * Lynah Rink (Cornell)
  * Thompson Arena (Dartmouth)
  * Bright Hockey Center (Harvard)
  * Hobey Baker Memorial Rink (Princeton)
  * TD Bank Sports Center (Quinnipiac)
  * Houston Field House (Rensselaer)
  * Appleton Arena (St. Lawrence)
  * Achilles Rink (Union)
  * Ingalls Rink (Yale)
  * Herb Brooks Arena (Men's tournament)

  
  
Championships  
and awards |

  * Men's champions
  * Women's champions
  * Player of the Year
  * Rookie of the Year
  * Coach of the Year
  * Best Defensive Defenseman
  * Best Defensive Forward
  * Ken Dryden Award
  * Student-Athlete of the Year
  * Most Outstanding Player in Tournament

  
  
Seasons |

  * 1961–62
  * 1962–63
  * 1963–64
  * 1964–65
  * 1965–66
  * 1966–67
  * 1967–68
  * 1968–69
  * 1969–70
  * 1970–71
  * 1971–72
  * 1972–73
  * 1973–74
  * 1974–75
  * 1975–76
  * 1976–77
  * 1977–78
  * 1978–79
  * 1979–80
  * 1980–81
  * 1981–82
  * 1982–83
  * 1983–84
  * 1984–85
  * 1985–86
  * 1986–87
  * 1987–88
  * 1988–89
  * 1989–90
  * 1990–91
  * 1991–92
  * 1992–93
  * 1993–94
  * 1994–95
  * 1995–96
  * 1996–97
  * 1997–98
  * 1998–99
  * 1999–00
  * 2000–01
  * 2001–02
  * 2002–03
  * 2003–04
  * 2004–05
  * 2005–06
  * 2006–07
  * 2007–08
  * 2008–09
  * 2009–10
  * 2010–11
  * 2011–12
  * 2012–13
  * 2013–14
  * 2014–15
  * 2015–16
  * 2016–17

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges  
  
---  
  
  * BU Terriers
  * Brown Bears
  * Columbia Lions
  * Cornell Big Red
  * Dartmouth Big Green
  * Georgetown Hoyas
  * Harvard Crimson
  * Holy Cross Crusaders
  * MIT Engineers
  * Navy Midshipmen
  * Northeastern Huskies
  * Penn Quakers
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Rutgers Scarlet Knights
  * Syracuse Orange
  * Wisconsin Badgers
  * Yale Bulldogs

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Eastern Intercollegiate Volleyball Association  
  
---  
Current members |

  * Charleston Golden Eagles
  * George Mason Patriots
  * Harvard Crimson
  * NJIT Highlanders
  * Penn State Nittany Lions
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Sacred Heart Pioneers
  * Saint Francis Red Flash

  
  
Former members |

  * Concordia College
  * East Stroudsburg University
  * Juniata College
  * New York University
  * University of New Haven
  * Queens College
  * Rutgers–Newark
  * Springfield College
  * Vassar College
  * SUNY New Paltz

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Sports teams based in New Jersey  
  
---  
Baseball |

EL

    Trenton Thunder
SAL

    Lakewood BlueClaws
ALPB

    Somerset Patriots
CanAm

    New Jersey Jackals
    Sussex County Miners

|

  
  
  
  
  
Basketball |

ABA

    Jersey Express  
  
Football |

NFL

    New York Giants
    New York Jets
AAL

    Jersey Flight _(beginning 2018)_  
  
Hockey |

NHL

    New Jersey Devils
NWHL

    Metropolitan Riveters
NAHL

    New Jersey Junior Titans  
  
Roller derby |

WFTDA

    Garden State Rollergirls
    Jersey Shore Roller Girls  
  
Soccer |

MLS

    New York Red Bulls
USL

    New York Red Bulls II
NWSL

    Sky Blue FC
PDL

    Jersey Express S.C.
    New York Red Bulls U-23
    Ocean City Nor'easters
NPSL

    Jersey Blues FC
     TSF FC  
  
College athletics  
(NCAA Division I) |

  * Fairleigh Dickinson Knights
  * Monmouth Hawks
  * NJIT Highlanders
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Rider Broncs
  * Rutgers Scarlet Knights
  * Saint Peter's Peacocks and Peahens
  * Seton Hall Pirates

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 141200041
  * LCCN: n79055384
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 2097 5006
  * GND: 30381-1
  * SUDOC: 026418673
  * BNF: cb118669434 (data)
  * NKC: kn20051122017
  * IATH: w63z1x39

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Princeton_University&oldid=816679066"

Categories:

  * Princeton University
  * Princeton, New Jersey
  * Educational institutions established in the 1740s
  * 1746 establishments in New Jersey
  * Colonial colleges
  * Eastern Pennsylvania Rugby Union
  * Universities and colleges in Mercer County, New Jersey
  * Environmental research institutes
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Pages with script errors
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from December 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Accuracy disputes from October 2015
  * Articles with dead external links from October 2012
  * Articles with dead external links from December 2016
  * Webarchive template archiveis links
  * Use American English from April 2016
  * All Wikipedia articles written in American English
  * Use mdy dates from April 2012
  * Articles containing Latin-language text
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Articles needing additional references from October 2017
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Articles needing additional references from October 2015
  * Wikipedia articles in need of updating from November 2012
  * All Wikipedia articles in need of updating
  * Articles with hAudio microformats
  * Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with SNAC-ID identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Gàidhlig
  * Galego
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kiswahili
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Magyar
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * მარგალური
  * مصرى
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Qaraqalpaqsha
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Türkmençe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * Yorùbá
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 22 December 2017, at 23:10.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 34 ranking. Northwestern is No. 49 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

