

# Private university

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

  * University portal

**Private universities** are typically not operated by governments, although
many receive tax breaks, public student loans, and grants. Depending on their
location, private universities may be subject to government regulation. This
is in contrast to public universities and national universities. Most private
universities are non-profit organizations.

## Contents

  * 1 Africa
    * 1.1 Egypt
    * 1.2 Ghana
    * 1.3 Libya
    * 1.4 Nigeria
    * 1.5 South Africa
  * 2 Asia
    * 2.1 Bangladesh
    * 2.2 Brunei Darussalam
    * 2.3 Cambodia
    * 2.4 China
      * 2.4.1 Hong Kong
      * 2.4.2 Macau
    * 2.5 India
    * 2.6 Indonesia
    * 2.7 Iran
    * 2.8 Iraq
    * 2.9 Japan
    * 2.10 Kuwait
    * 2.11 Lebanon
    * 2.12 Malaysia
    * 2.13 Nepal
    * 2.14 Pakistan
    * 2.15 Saudi Arabia
    * 2.16 Singapore
    * 2.17 South Korea
    * 2.18 Sri Lanka
    * 2.19 Syria
    * 2.20 Taiwan
    * 2.21 Thailand
    * 2.22 Vietnam
  * 3 Europe
    * 3.1 Austria
    * 3.2 Bulgaria
    * 3.3 Finland
    * 3.4 France
    * 3.5 Germany
    * 3.6 Greece
    * 3.7 Hungary
    * 3.8 Italy
    * 3.9 Ireland
    * 3.10 Netherlands
    * 3.11 Poland
    * 3.12 Portugal
    * 3.13 Serbia
    * 3.14 Switzerland
    * 3.15 Turkey
    * 3.16 United Kingdom
  * 4 Americas
    * 4.1 Canada
    * 4.2 Chile
    * 4.3 Dominica
    * 4.4 Guatemala
    * 4.5 Mexico
    * 4.6 United States
  * 5 Oceania
    * 5.1 Australia
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## Africa[edit]

### Egypt[edit]

Egypt has many private universities, including The American University in
Cairo, the German University in Cairo, The British University in Egypt, the
Arab Academy for Science, Technology and Maritime Transport, Misr University
for Science and Technology, Misr International University, Future University
in Egypt and Modern Sciences and Arts University.

### Ghana[edit]

There were few private universities in Ghana before the beginning of the new
millennium. Ghana has seen a flood of the establishment of private
universities and colleges, which is a reflection of the country's stable
governance and peaceful atmosphere, and most importantly the pace of economic
growth. Most of these universities are not known to be sponsored by foreign
corporate organisations and government universities, and the aim is to avoid
the Ghana government's excessive payment of bond which is a requirement for
all foreign institutions endeavouring to operate business in the country.
Almost all the private universities in Ghana have a similar kind of academic
discipline, like Business Administration, Human Resource, Accounting,
Information Technology, etc., which are offered by universities like Ashesi,
Regent, Valley View, Ghana Telecom and many others. The recent discovery of
oil and gas in commercial quantities has influenced the development of oil and
gas management courses within the private universities' curriculum.

### Libya[edit]

Libya has number of recognised private education institutions and
universities, approved by the Ministry of Higher Education, ranked and
qualified to specialise in academic programs in Business Administration,
Computer Science, Law, Medicine and Humanitarian. These institutions include:

  * Al Rifaq University for Humanitarian and Applied Science – Tripoli City
  * Ibn Al Haytham Center for Technology Education and Scientific research – Tripoli City
  * Libyan International Medical University – Benghazi City
  * Libyan University for Humanitarian and Applied Science – Tajora City
  * Tripoli Community University – Tripoli
  * Tripoli Institute for Medical Sciences – Tripoli City
  * United Africa University – Zawia City

### Nigeria[edit]

The National Universities Commission of Nigeria has the responsibility to
approve private universities and accredit their courses. This ensures a
minimum standard in curriculum and teaching. There are currently 60 approved
private universities in Nigeria and still counting as there are hundreds of
application under processing.

### South Africa[edit]

In South Africa there is a distinction between public universities and what
the government calls private higher education institutions. Varsity College,
Vega, The Design School Southern Africa, Milpark, Midrand Graduate Institute,
Regenesys Business School, Akademia and Richfield Graduate Institute of
Technology are all recognised as private higher education institutions.

## Asia[edit]

### Bangladesh[edit]

A number of private universities were established in Bangladesh after the
Private University Act, 1992 was instituted, and amended as the Private
University Act 2010. All private universities must be approved by University
Grants Commission (UGC) before they are given a permit to operate. See
external links for: _Private Universities Act 1992_.

As of 2014, there were 91 private universities in Bangladesh.

### Brunei Darussalam[edit]

Private institutions must confer the students with external programmes such as
BDTVEC (the largest awarding body in the country), BTEC and Cambridge
International Examinations pathways. Accreditation by Brunei Darussalam
National Accreditation Council (BDNAC) is very crucial in order to establish a
private institution.

  * Laksamana College of Business (Brunei Campus of Kensington College of Business)

### Cambodia[edit]

Since 1997, private universities have been established in the Kingdom of
Cambodia.

  * IIC University of Technology (IICUT) – Phnom Penh
  * Zaman University (ZAMANU) – Phnom Penh

### China[edit]

Since 2003, joint-partnership private universities have been established in
the People's Republic of China (PRC). English is the only language of
instruction in all three institutions.

  * United International College (UIC) – Zhuhai, Guangdong
  * University of Nottingham Ningbo, China (UNNC) – Ningbo, Zhejiang
  * Xi'an Jiaotong-Liverpool University (XJTLU) – Suzhou, Jiangsu
  * University of Xing Hua

#### Hong Kong[edit]

  * Shue Yan University\- acquired university status on 19 December 2006

#### Macau[edit]

  * City University of Macau
  * Macau University of Science and Technology

### India[edit]

Main article: List of private universities in India

Universities in India are recognized by the University Grants Commission
(UGC), which draws its power from the _University Grants Commission Act,
1956_.[1] Private universities in India are regulated under the UGC
(Establishment and Maintenance of Standards in Private Universities)
Regulations, 2003.[2] Per the UGC act and these regulations, private
universities are established by an act of a local legislative assembly and
listed by the UGC in the Gazette upon receiving the act. As confirmed by
ruling of the Supreme Court of India, recognition by the UGC is required for
the university to operate.[3] Also per the 2003 regulations, the UGC sends
committees to inspect the private universities and publishes their inspection
report.

The UGC publishes and regularly updates the lists of private universities.[4]
As of 18 September 2017[update], the UGC list of private universities lists
279 universities.[5] The earliest date of notification is that of Sikkim
Manipal University, 11 October 1995. The earliest inspection report is that of
Nirma University of Science and Technology, from 15 May 2004.[5] The newest
addition to this list of Universities approved by UGC is Quantum University.

### Indonesia[edit]

  * Islamic University of Indonesia – a private university located in Yogyakarta, Indonesia; established on 27 Rajab 1364 (Islamic Calendar) or on 8 July 1945 as STI (Sekolah Tinggi Islam – Islamic Higher School) by political figures of the day including Dr. Muhammad Hatta, Mohammad Natsir, Mohammad Roem, Wachid Hasyim as well as Abdul Kahar Mudzakir. STI developed into Universitas Islam Indonesia on 14 December 1947. Historically, UII is the first national university in Indonesia, and is also the oldest private university in the country.
  * Muhammadiyah University of Magelang – a private university belonging to Muhammadiyah organisation; known as UMMGL, standing for Universitas Muhammadiyah Magelang; founded on August 31, 1964
  * Parahyangan Catholic University \- a private university located in Bandung which was established on 1955
  * Telkom University

### Iran[edit]

  * Khayyam University of Mashhad
  * The Islamic Azad University system
  * University of Iranians
  * University of Science and Culture

### Iraq[edit]

  * Ahlulbait University College \- Karbala
  * Al Hadbaa University College \- Al Musel
  * Al Maamoon University College \- Baghdad
  * Al Maarif University College \- Al-Anbar
  * Al Mansour University College \- Baghdad
  * Al Rafidain University College \- Baghdad
  * Al Rasheed University College \- Baghdad
  * Al Turath University College \- Baghdad
  * Al Yarmouk University College \- Diala
  * ِAlsalam University College \- Baghdad
  * Baghdad College of Economic Sciences University \- Baghdad
  * Baghdad College of Pharmacy \- Baghdad
  * Basrah University College of Science and Technology \- Basrah
  * Business & Management University \- Baghdad
  * Dijlah University College \- Baghdad
  * Humanitarian Studies University College \- Najaf
  * Iraq University College \- Basrah
  * Islamic University College \- Najaf
  * Konooz University College \- Basrah
  * Madenat Alelem University College \- Baghdad
  * Shat Al Arab College \- Basrah
  * Sheikh Tusi University College \- Najaf

### Japan[edit]

As of 2010[update] Japan had 597 private universities, while there are 86
national universities and 95 public universities.[6] Private universities thus
account for about ¾ of all universities in Japan. Many, but not all, junior
colleges in Japan are private. Like public and national universities, many
private universities use National Center Test for University Admissions as an
entrance exam.

The most famous colleges are:

Kantō region

  * International Christian University
  * Keio University
  * Sophia University
  * Tokyo University of Science
  * Waseda University

    Another five colleges, called "MARCH"

  * Meiji University
  * Aoyama Gakuin University
  * Rikkyo University
  * Chuo University
  * Hosei University

Kansai region

  * Doshisha University
  * Kansai University
  * Kwansei Gakuin University
  * Nanzan University
  * Ritsumeikan University

### Kuwait[edit]

There are four private universities and five colleges in Kuwait:

  * American College of the Middle East (ACM)
  * American University of Kuwait (AUK)
  * American University of the Middle East (AUM)
  * Arab Open University (AOU)
  * Australian College of Kuwait (ACK)
  * Box Hill College Kuwait – higher education for women
  * College of Aviation Technology
  * Gulf University for Science and Technology (GUST)
  * Kuwait-Maastricht Business School

### Lebanon[edit]

There are 19 private universities in Lebanon.[7] Among these, the American
University of Beirut and the Lebanese American University are internationally
acknowledged.[8]

The languages of teaching in private universities are mainly French and
English, while Arabic is widely used in religious universities and Armenian is
used in the Armenian university.

The first university opened in Lebanon was the Syrian Protestant College in
1866 (which became the American University of Beirut in 1921). It was founded
by Daniel Bliss, a Protestant missionary. The second university opened in
Lebanon was the Université Saint-Joseph, founded by the Jesuits in 1875.

### Malaysia[edit]

The private universities include:

  * Curtin University Sarawak
  * Monash University Malaysia Campus
  * Multimedia University
  * New Era University College
  * Southern University College
  * Sunway University
  * Swinburne University of Technology Sarawak Campus
  * Tunku Abdul Rahman University College
  * Taylor's University
  * Universiti Teknologi Petronas
  * Universiti Tunku Abdul Rahman

For complete list of private universities in Malaysia, see the list of private
universities in Malaysia.

### Nepal[edit]

  * Kathmandu University – When established in November 1991 as a non-profit, autonomous, public university,[9]

by an Act,[10] Kathmandu University became the first privately managed public
institution of higher learning in Nepal.

### Pakistan[edit]

Main article: Higher Education Commission of Pakistan

The Higher Education Commission (HEC), formerly the University Grant
Commission, is the primary regulator of higher education in Pakistan. It also
facilitates the development of the higher educational system in Pakistan. Its
main purpose is to upgrade the schools to be world-class centres of education,
research and development. It also plays a leading role towards building a
knowledge-based economy in Pakistan by giving out hundreds of doctoral
scholarships for education abroad every year.

In spite of the criticism of the HEC, its creation has also had a positive
impact on higher education in Pakistan. Its two-year report for 2004 to 2006
states that according to the Institute of Scientific Information, the total
number of publications appearing in the 8,000 leading journals indexed in the
web of science arising out of Pakistan in 2005 was 1,259 articles,
representing a 41% increase over the past two years and a 60% increase since
the establishment of HEC in 2002. The HEC digital library now provides access
to over 20,000 leading research journals, covering about 75% of the world's
peer-reviewed scientific journals.

Until 1991, there were only two recognized private universities in Pakistan:
Aga Khan University, established in 1983; and Lahore University of Management
Sciences, established in 1985. By 1997, however, there were 10 private
universities. In 2001–2002, this number had doubled to 20. Among the first to
gain degree awarding status was Hajvery University, Lahore (HU), established
in 1990. In 2003–2004 Pakistan had a total of 83 private degree granting
institutions.

The HEC website also points to a 40% increase in enrollment in universities in
Pakistan over the last two years, which it attributes to efforts on its part
to encourage higher education in the country.

See external links for _Higher Education Commission_.

###  Saudi Arabia[edit]

There are nine private universities in Saudi Arabia:

  * Al Yamamah University
  * Alfaisal University
  * Arab Open University
  * Dar Al Uloom University[11]
  * Effat University
  * Fahd bin Sultan University[12]
  * King Abdullah University of Science and Technology
  * Prince Mohammad bin Fahd University
  * Prince Sultan University

### Singapore[edit]

Stansfield College, founded in 1993, is a private higher education institution
and a provider of the University of London International Programmes in
Singapore. Through its collaboration with the University of London, Stansfield
offers undergraduate degrees and diplomas in a range of academic disciplines
which include Law, the Humanities, and the EMFSS suite of programmes with
specialisations in Accounting, Business & Management, Banking & Finance,
Economics, Mathematics & Economics and the Social Sciences.[13] The college
has also expanded its range of programmes to include several university
foundation awards including certificate and diploma programmes that allow
students to progress academically at Stansfield or to gain admissions into
overseas universities. The college also provides postgraduate diplomas and
executive development courses and seminars.[13]

The college enrolls over 500, with students from over 30 countries studying at
its campus.[13]

Auston Institute of Management is another example of a private 'university'
where students who study at the college receive university awards from degree-
awarding partners overseas. Auston rose to fame in the early 2000s[ _citation
needed_ ] with a collaboration with Coventry University. This partnership
ended in 2012 and was replaced with new partners including London South Bank
University, University of Wolverhampton, Birmingham City University,
Chichester University and De Montfort University. Auston is known for its
hands-on approach and its emphasis in technical areas of study such as
electronics, mechatronics, computer security, and various forms of software
engineering.[14]

Auston graduates about 400 students per year from as many as eight different
countries, all studying in Singapore for UK degree awards.[14]

### South Korea[edit]

  * Busan University of Foreign Studies
  * Chung-Ang University
  * Dong-A University
  * Dongseo University
  * Handong Global University
  * Hankuk University of Foreign Studies
  * Hanyang University
  * Hongik University
  * Keimyung University
  * Kookmin University
  * Korea University
  * Kwangwoon University
  * Kyung Hee University
  * Kyungsung University
  * Sogang University
  * Sungkyunkwan University
  * Yonsei University

### Sri Lanka[edit]

Sri Lanka does not officially recognise private universities, but does not
explicitly forbid them either.But there are many private institutes(these
institutes are registered under the company act), and several independent
institutions that are non-government funded. These mostly provide
undergraduate degrees, with a limited few proving postgraduate degrees. The
Informatics Institute of Sri Lanka (IIT),[15] Horizon Campus[16] and Sri Lanka
Institute for Information Technology (SLIIT)[17] are examples. Some foreign
universities franchise parts of their degree courses in Sri Lanka with local
institutes. Students are charged for the study (some of these institutes are
state funded institutions of their home countries) and these charges are often
a fraction of the cost studying in the home countries of these institutions.

Efforts to establish private universities have been blocked due to protests
from state universities' undergraduates and leftist political parties.

However many private colleges have sprung up one of which is the affiliated
campus of Auston Institute of Management, Singapore. The Sri Lanka campus was
established in 2010 and is a Board of Investment or (BOI) company. It retains
a similar focus to the home campus and occupies a prime spot along Colombo's
famous Galle Road.[18]

Auston has been visited by many foreign universities and continues to expand
its provision of titles in engineering and computing.[18]

### Syria[edit]

  * Al-Andalus University
  * Al Rasheed International University
  * Al-Shahba University
  * Al-Wataniya Private University
  * Aljazeera University
  * Arab International University
  * Ebla Private University
  * Hawash Private University
  * International University for Science and Technology
  * Ittihad Private University
  * Mamoun University for Science and Technology
  * Syrian Private University
  * University of Kalamoon
  * Wadi International University
  * Yarmouk Private University

### Taiwan[edit]

In Taiwan, unlike the United States, private universities are typically not as
prestigious as some public (national) universities. They are not as highly
ranked as public institutions, and also cost nearly twice as much. This is due
to the form of testing in schools in Taiwan, in which students take a national
entrance exam to determine their university qualifications. The famous private
university is Fu Jen Catholic University, and the earliest is Tunghai
University.

### Thailand[edit]

  * Asia-Pacific International University – Saraburi
  * Asian University – Chonburi
  * Assumption University (AU) – Bangkok
  * Bangkok University (BU) – Bangkok
  * Bangkokthonburi University (BTU)– Bangkok
  * Chaopraya University – Nakhon Sawan
  * Christian University – Nakhon Pathom
  * Chulabhorn Graduate Institute – Bangkok
  * Dhurakij Pundit University – Bangkok
  * Dusit Thani College (DTC) – Bangkok
  * E-sarn University – Khon Kaen
  * Eastern Asia University – Pathumthani
  * The Far Eastern University – Chiang Mai
  * Hatyai University – Songkhla
  * Huachiew Chalermprakiet University (HCU) – Bangkok
  * Kasem Bundit University (KBU) – Bangkok
  * Krirk University – Bangkok
  * Mahanakorn University of Technology (MUT) – Bangkok
  * North Chiang Mai University – Chiang Mai
  * North Eastern University – Khon Kaen
  * Pathumthani University – Pathumthani
  * Payap University – Chiang Mai
  * Rangsit University (RSU) – Pathumthani
  * Ratchathani University – Ubon Ratchathani
  * Rattana Bundit University – Bangkok
  * Saint John's University – Bangkok
  * Shinawatra University – Pathumthani
  * Siam University (SU) – Bangkok
  * South-East Asia University – Bangkok
  * Sripatum University (SPU) – Khon Kaen and Bangkok
  * Stamford International University – Phetchaburi
  * Thai-Nichi Institute of Technology – Bangkok
  * Thonburi University – Bangkok
  * University of the Thai Chamber of Commerce (UTCC) – Bangkok
  * Vongchavalitkul University – Nakhon Ratchasima
  * Webster University Thailand – Phetchaburi
  * Yala Islamic University – Yala

### Vietnam[edit]

Since the 1990s a lot of private universities have opened in Vietnam.
Hochiminh City Open University was one of the first. Typical characteristics
of Vietnamese private universities as of 2010[update] are higher (very high in
some cases) tuition fees, poor infrastructure, and limited faculty and human
resources.

Private universities are often named after scholars (Fulbright University
William Fulbright, Vo Truong Toan University, Nguyen Trai University, Luong
The Vinh University, Chu Van A University, Yersin University, Phan Chau Trinh
University), or heroes/legends (Hung Vuong University, Quang Trung
University), although there are exceptions, such as FPT University, named
after the FPT Group and Tan Tao University, in Tan Tao Group.

In Vietnam, there exists the "semi-private university"; schools in this
category can receive partial financial support from the government. Almost all
private universities have to invite professors and lecturers from the state
universities. Many lecturers from state-owned universities take up positions
in private universities after their retirement.

## Europe[edit]

### Austria[edit]

In Austria, educational institutions must be authorised by the country to
legally grant academic degrees. All state-run universities are governed by the
2002 Austrian Universities' and University Degree Programmes' Organisation Act
(Federal Law Gazette No. 120/2002). In 1999, a federal law ( _Universitäts-
Akkreditierungsgesetz_ ) was passed to allow the accreditation of private
universities. The _Akkreditierungsrat_ (Accreditation Council)[19] evaluates
applicants and issues recommendations to the responsible Austrian
accreditation authority (the Austrian Federal Ministry of Science  &
Research).

Accreditation by the council yields a couple of privileges: degrees issued by
accredited private universities have the same legal status as those issued by
state-run universities. Private universities can appoint or promote
professors. Their students enjoy the same privileges pertaining to social
security, foreigner law and state scholarships as students of the state
universities. Educational services of private universities are not subject to
value added tax, and donations are tax deductible.

Accreditations must be renewed regularly and can be withdrawn, e.g. in the
case of repeated academic misconduct as happened in 2003 when the
accreditation of International University Vienna was withdrawn. In 2006, when
the accreditation of IMADEC University expired, the Accreditation Council
rejected requests for renewal.

Austrian law provides that private universities in Austria must use the term
_Privatuniversität_ (literally, "private university") in their German names,
although their formal names in other languages are not regulated. Thus, there
is the possibility of private institutions employing the term "university" as
opposed to "private university" in their advertisements in all languages
except German while still complying with Austrian law.

While the legal definition of "private university" prohibits funding by the
federal government of Austria, funding by other public bodies is not
prohibited. Consequently, some of Austria's private universities are partly or
wholly funded by provincial governments, while others are fully privately
funded.

Accreditation of private universities began in 2001. As of 2010[update]
Austria has 12 private universities. Most are small (fewer than 1000 students)
and specialise in only one or two fields of study:

  * Anton Bruckner Private University for Music, Drama, and Dance – Linz
  * Catholic-Theological Private University Linz
  * Danube Private University – Krems an der Donau
  * European Peace University – Stadtschlaining
  * Karl Landsteiner University – Krems an der Donau
  * Konservatorium Wien – Vienna
  * MODUL University Vienna (2007)
  * New Design University – St. Pölten
  * Paracelsus Medizinische Privatuniversität – Salzburg
  * Privatuniversität Schloss Seeburgin Seekirchen – near Salzburg
  * Sigmund Freud University Vienna
  * University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology – Hall in Tirol
  * Webster University Vienna (also accredited in the US)

Four former private universities are **not accredited** any more:

  * International University Vienna: Accreditation was withdrawn in 2003 due to academic misconduct.
  * IMADEC University: First accreditation period ended in January 2006 and was not renewed.
  * TCM Privatuniversität Li Shi Zhen in Vienna: Accreditation period ended 2009; TCM did not call for renewal. All students could finish their studies.
  * PEF Private University of Management Vienna: The university closed for economic reasons in March 2012. All students could finish their studies.

### Bulgaria[edit]

Bulgaria has a number of private universities, among which the most renowned
are New Bulgarian University, located in the capital city Sofia; Burgas Free
University; Varna Free University; and American University in Bulgaria.

### Finland[edit]

Finland does not officially recognise private universities, but does not
explicitly forbid them either. Helsinki School of Business is an example of
one such educational institution operating in this market.

### France[edit]

France has a dual system with universities and grandes ecoles.

Universities are usually public, such as Université Paris La Sorbonne and
Université Paris-Dauphine, but some are private, such as the Lille Catholic
University. They provide courses in all academic fields (engineering, law,
medical, economics, arts, business administration, sociology). One may join
university after a high school degree and study there for a bachelor's,
master's or doctoral program (3, 5, 8 years).

Grandes ecoles can be public or private. They operate mainly in engineering
studies and business administration. Universities and grandes ecoles compete
in these two fields. The most prestigious grandes ecoles are public. Some of
them report to the Ministry of Higher Education, such as Arts et Métiers
ParisTech and Ecole Centrale Paris, and others to the Ministry of Defense,
such as Ecole Polytechnique. However, several private grandes ecoles are
members of the Conférence des Grandes Écoles, such as ICAM or ISEN. One may
join a grande école after two additional specific years in high school (called
classes préparatoires), following the high school degree. A selective
examination after the two additional years is taken to enter a grande ecole.
Within European Union standardisation, this full 5 year cursus (two year
preparatory classes plus 3 years in engineering or business school) is
equivalent to a master's degree for international exchange programs.

Grandes ecoles for studying business administration are usually part of the
Chamber of Commerce. HEC and ESCP Europe are part of the Chamber of Commerce
of Paris (CCIP), and are therefore semi-private.

### Germany[edit]

Germany has 83 private universities (called _Privathochschule_ ) and 45
church-run universities (called _kirchliche Hochschule_ ). Similar to the
state-run universities, they are subdivided into _Universitäten_ (research
universities), _Fachhochschulen_ (universities of applied science) and _Kunst-
und Musikhochschulen_ (art schools). Private universities in Germany need
institutional accreditation by the state.

The first private university in Germany, the Ukrainian Free University, was
established 16 September 1950 in Munich. Witten/Herdecke University opened in
1982. Though private universities are numerous in Germany, they represent only
less than 1% of all students. Some private universities, including Hanseatic
University Rostock (2007–2009) and the International University in Germany in
Bruchsal, have gone out of business.

Most of the church universities are run by the Protestant or Catholic
churches; however, there is one Jewish university ( _Hochschule für Jüdische
Studien_ ) in Heidelberg.

### Greece[edit]

In Greece private universities are prohibited by the constitution (Article
16). However, laboratories of liberal studies (Εργαστήρια ελευθέρων σπουδών,
ergastiria eleftheron spoudon) operate freely in the country, and, based on a
law from the 1930s they are registered as private for-profit businesses and
regulated by the Greek Ministry of Commerce. Their academic degrees, which are
not recognised in Greece, are directly provided to students by foreign
universities in the United Kingdom, United States of America, or other
countries, usually through franchise or validation agreements (the franchise
agreement usually being considered better). This has limited access to the
laboratories, which usually teach in English, to high-income Greeks who for
various reasons (usually family matters) did not want to go abroad.

In 2008 a law was introduced that forced all private institutions
collaborating with foreign universities to offer programmes in the country, to
register with the Greek Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs as
_colleges_ (κολλέγια, kollegia) by August 2009. Further amendments to the
framework in 2010, 2012 and 2013 (4111/2013, 4093/2012) were introduced. Today
there are a series of private colleges mostly offering programmes in Business
Administration and other fields.

###  Hungary[edit]

  * Central European University – Budapest; a founding member of the European University Association (EUA)[20]

### Italy[edit]

  * Maria SS. Assunta University - LUMSA (Rome, Palermo, Taranto, Gubbio)
  * University of International Studies of Rome - UNINT (Rome)
  * Link Campus University (Rome)
  * IULM University (Milan)
  * LUISS - Free International University for Social Studies "Guido Carli" (Rome)
  * Jean Monnet Free University (Casamassima)
  * Carlo Cattaneo University -LIUC (Castellanza)
  * Catholic University of the Sacred Heart (Milan, Rome, Brescia, Campobasso, Piacenza, Cremona)
  * Biomedicali University of Rome (Rome)
  * Bocconi University (Milan)
  * Suor Orsola Benincasa University of Naples (Naples, Pomigliano d'Arco, Salerno)
  * University of Gastronomic Sciences (Bra, Colorno)
  * Vita-Salute San Raffaele University (Milan, Cesano Maderno)
  * European University of Rome (Rome)
  * Humanitas University (Rozzano)

### Ireland[edit]

In the Republic of Ireland, a private university (more commonly known as a
_private college_ ) is one that is not funded by the state, and therefore not
covered by the free-fees initiative. All universities, institutes of
technology, colleges of education, and the National College of Ireland and
some religious institutions are publicly funded and therefore covered by
_free-fees_ initiative. There are few private colleges, and they are highly
specialised, such as Griffith College Dublin, Dorset College and Dublin
Business School. The major representative body for private colleges in Ireland
is the Higher Education Colleges Association. Private colleges in Ireland can
seek to have their programmes validated/accredited by the Higher Education and
Training Awards Council.

See external links for: _free-fees initiative_ and _Higher Education Colleges
Association_.

###  Netherlands[edit]

Nyenrode is the only private university in the Netherlands at the graduate
level. The university was founded in 1946. It serves as a graduate school for
business and management. Both programs are taught in English.[ _citation
needed_ ] Recently, Nyenrode merged with the Institute for CPA Education and
both institutions share their facilities. The Nyenrode Business University
also contains a campus and active student body.

Other Dutch private universities are universities of applied science (HBOs)
where one can obtain a bachelor's or master's degree but not a PhD. These
include Wittenborg University, Business School Notenboom (founded in 1958)[21]
and IVA Driebergen for the automotive industry with its earliest beginnings in
1930.[22]

### Poland[edit]

There are 321 accredited private universities in Poland.[23] They award
bachelor's degrees, master's degrees and doctorate degrees.

### Portugal[edit]

Main article: Higher education in Portugal

The oldest non-state-run university, the _Universidade Católica Portuguesa_ –
UCP (Catholic University of Portugal), a catholic private university
(concordatory status), with branches in the cities of Lisbon, Porto, Braga,
Viseu, and Caldas da Rainha, was founded before the others, in 1967, and
officially recognized in 1971. UCP offers some well-recognized degrees and is
reputed for the economics, law and business management degrees it awards at
its Lisbon branch. Other degrees awarded by UCP, like biotechnology and dental
medicine, amassed increasing success and popularity since the 2000s.

After the Carnation Revolution of 1974, in the 1980s and 1990s, a boom of
educational private institutions was experienced in Portugal, and many private
universities started to open. Most had a poor reputation and were known for
making it easy for students to enter and also to get high grades. In 2007,
several of those private universities, or their heirs, were investigated and
faced compulsory closing (for example, the infamous Independente University
and Internacional University closings, and the Moderna University scandal) or
official criticism with recommendations that the state-managed investigation
proposed for improving their quality and avoid termination.

In the mid-2000s, within the Bologna process, a reorganization of higher
education was started which included more stringent regulations for private
education and expanded state policies with regard to private education quality
assurance and educational accreditation. In general, the private higher
education institutions were often considered the schools of last resort for
underachieving applicants who didn't score enough points in the admission
examinations to enter the main public institutions.

Nearly open-admission policies have hurt private universities' reputation and
the actual quality of their alumni. Without large endowments like those
received, for example, by many US private universities and colleges which are
attractive to the best scholars, researchers and students, the private higher
education institutions of Portugal, with a few exceptions, do not have either
the financial support or the academic profile to reach the highest teaching
and research standards of the top Portuguese public universities. In addition,
most private universities have faced a restrictive lack of collaboration with
the major enterprises which, however, have developed fruitful relationships
with many public higher education institutions. Most Portuguese private
universities specialise in a limited number of fields, most often in the
social sciences and humanities.

### Serbia[edit]

Main article: List of universities in Serbia

There is a number of private universities and independent faculties in Serbia,
mostly in Belgrade. They were founded in the 1990s and 2000s. Some, but not
all of them are accredited by the state Commission for Accreditation and
Quality Assurance. Serbian private universities and faculties have a general
reputation of low-quality institutions where nouveau riche businesspeople,
popular music/TV stars, sportspeople and politicians, as well as their
children, obtain degrees for money.

### Switzerland[edit]

Further to the public Universities in Switzerland, the country is well known
for its high-quality private education system. For a more complete listing,
please consult:

  * the List of universities in Switzerland
  * the Category:Business schools in Switzerland

### Turkey[edit]

In Turkey there are now 66 private universities. Bilkent University, founded
in 1984, was the first. Actually they have to be and all belong to NGOs due to
the high Education Law, article 3-c and annexed article 2.[24]

In Turkey, according to the laws of private universities, on the
recommendation of the Higher Education Council is established by law. The
establishment of such universities, established a new university building or
in the form of a higher education institution will be the name of the
university. Foundations for the establishment of the university, the
university faculty, the formation of at least two of the bodies of the
faculties of arts and science education programs related to the fields to be
present, the university of arts and science programs to be among the first to
be launched training programs and eligible to attend the university's
commitment to the education of students in these programs start year
necessary.

The well known private universities in Turkey are:

  * Acıbadem University – Istanbul
  * Bahçeşehir University – Istanbul
  * Başkent University – Ankara
  * Beykent University – Istanbul
  * Bilkent University – Ankara
  * Çankaya University – Ankara
  * Fatih University – Istanbul
  * Istanbul Aydın University – Istanbul
  * Istanbul Bilgi University – Istanbul
  * İzmir University – İzmir
  * İzmir University of Economics – İzmir
  * Koç University – Istanbul
  * Meliksah University – Kayseri
  * Sabancı University – Istanbul
  * Şifa University – İzmir
  * TOBB University of Economics and Technology – Ankara
  * University of Turkish Aeronautical Association – Ankara
  * Yaşar University – İzmir
  * Yeditepe University – Istanbul

### United Kingdom[edit]

See also: Universities in the United Kingdom

There are five fully private universities in the United Kingdom: the
University of Buckingham, BPP University, Regent's University London, the
University of Law and Arden University.[25][26][27]

All other British universities are partly publicly funded and regulated: the
government regulates their tuition fees, student funding and student loans and
commissions and regulates research assessments and teaching reviews. However,
unlike in Continental European countries, the British government does not own
universities' assets, and university staff are not civil servants: government
regulation arises as a condition of accepting funding from bodies such as
HEFCE and any university can in principle choose to leave the HEFCE regulated
system at any time.[28] Since September 2012 government funding for teaching
and background funding for research has been substantially reduced, with one
study from that year indicating that annual government funding for teaching
and research would make up just 15% of universities’ income by 2015.[29]

In the UK, an institution can only use the title "University" or "University
College" if it has been granted by the Privy Council, under the terms of the
Further and Higher Education Act 1992.[30]

## Americas[edit]

### Canada[edit]

Main article: List of private universities in Canada

### Chile[edit]

Chile has 31 completely private universities and an additional 14 universities
which are run by private organizations (mostly religious) but receive some
state funding.[31]

### Dominica[edit]

  * All Saints University School of Medicine
  * International University for Graduate Studies
  * New World University
  * Ross University School of Medicine

### Guatemala[edit]

In Guatemala, the only public university is Universidad de San Carlos de
Guatemala. The rest of the degree offering institutions in the country are
private. See list of universities in Guatemala for a list of the private
universities in the country.

### Mexico[edit]

Mexico has private and public (government managed) universities. Public
universities are free or require a very minimum fee and private universities
usually charge for an initial enrollment and monthly fees.

### United States[edit]

In the US, many universities and colleges are private,[ _quantify_ ] mostly
operating as educational and research nonprofit organizations,[ _citation
needed_ ] while there are also for-profit universities. About 20% of American
college students attend private colleges.[32] Most of the remainder attend
state-supported schools.

Legally, private universities may not discriminate, but generally have a
somewhat free hand in setting admissions policies.[ _weasel  words_]
Universities base their selections on many secondary factors other than
academic performance.[33]

Tuition fees at private universities tend to be higher than at public
universities, though many private universities offer financial aid as
well.[34] For example, at Princeton University, 60% of the Class of 2013
received financial aid, with an average grant amount of $36,000. The average
grant now exceeds Princeton’s $35,340 annual tuition.[35]

## Oceania[edit]

### Australia[edit]

There are currently three private universities in Australia. Bond University,
Australia's first private university, dates from 1987.[36] Situated on the
Gold Coast, it runs three semesters per year (correlating exactly with the
Northern and Southern Hemispheres' schedules), which allows a student to
complete a six semester degree in two years, and an eight semester degree
(e.g. Law) in under three years.[37] The University of Notre Dame Australia, a
private Catholic university based in Fremantle, was established two years
later in 1989, and the newest of the three, Torrens University Australia,
opened in Adelaide in 2014.[38]

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "University Grants Commission Act, 1956" (PDF). Union Human Resource Development Ministry. Retrieved 3 September 2011. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  2. **^** "UGC (Establishment and Maintenance of Standards in Private Universities) Regulations, 2003" (PDF). University Grants Commission. Retrieved 22 February 2012. 
  3. **^** "Supreme Court Judgment Chhattisgarh". _www.ugc.ac.in_. University Grants Commission. Retrieved  1 September 2017. 
  4. **^** "Private Universities". _www.ugc.ac.in_. University Grants Commission. Retrieved  1 September 2017. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "State -wise List of Private Universities as on 19.09.2017" (PDF). _www.ugc.ac.in_. University Grants Commission. 19 September 2017. Retrieved  1 September 2017. 
  6. **^** 私立学校の振興 (in Japanese). 2010. Retrieved 2013-07-01. 
  7. **^** Lebanese Ministry of Higher Education website (in Arabic)
  8. **^** Education in Lebanon, CSRD report, Lebanese American University, 2004
  9. **^** "SCIENCE, RESEARCH AND TECHNOLOGY IN NEPAL" (PDF). _Bajracharya, Dayanand; Bhuju, Dinesh Raj; Pokhrel, Jiba Raj. UNESCO Kathamndu Office_. Retrieved  2007-11-03. 
  10. **^** "KU Act 2048/1991" (PDF). _KUPA_. Retrieved  2012-08-14. 
  11. **^** "Private Universities". Ministry of Higher Education. Retrieved  14 August 2012. 
  12. **^** "University background". FBSU. Retrieved  14 August 2012. 
  13. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Stansfield College". _Stansfield College_. Retrieved  2 April 2016. 
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Auston - Engineering, Computing and Business Degrees & Diplomas". Retrieved  2 April 2016. 
  15. **^** www.iit.ac.lk
  16. **^** "Horizon Campus". Retrieved  2 April 2016. 
  17. **^** "Home - Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology". _Sri Lanka Institute of Information Technology_. Retrieved  2 April 2016. 
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "- Engineering and Project Management College in Sri Lanka". _Auston_. Retrieved  2 April 2016. 
  19. **^** Official website – _Akkreditierungsrat_
  20. **^** Diane Stone, "Market Principles, Philanthropic Ideals and Public Service Values: The Public Policy Program at the Central European University", _PS: Political Science and Politics_ , July 2007: 545—551.
  21. **^** "Particuliere Business school". Notenboom. Retrieved  14 August 2012. 
  22. **^** "Meer dan tachtig jaar; IVA Driebergen". Iva-driebergen. Retrieved  14 August 2012. 
  23. **^** „Szkoły wyższe i ich finanse w 2012 r.”, s. 32, 2013-11-13. Główny Urząd Statystyczny. ISSN 1506-2163 (pol.).
  24. **^** Yüksek Öğretim Kanunu/High Education Law
  25. **^** "The University Debate: What the Ivy League can teach Britain". London: The Independent. 16 February 2011. Retrieved  3 March 2011. 
  26. **^** "For-profit college gains full university status". _BBC News_. 8 August 2013.  
  27. **^** "For-profit RDI granted university status". _Times Higher Education_. 5 August 2015. Retrieved  16 December 2015. 
  28. **^** Dennis, Farrington; David Palfreyman (21 February 2011). "OFFA and £6000-9000 tuition fees" (PDF). _OxCHEPS Occasional Paper No. 39_. Oxford Centre for Higher Education Policy Studies. Retrieved  20 March 2011. Note, however, that any university which does not want funding from HEFCE can, as a private corporation, charge whatever tuition fees it likes (exactly as does, say, the University of Buckingham or BPP University College). Under existing legislation and outside of the influence of the HEFCE-funding mechanism upon universities, Government can no more control university tuition fees than it can dictate the price of socks in Marks & Spencer. Universities are not part of the State and they are not part of the public sector; Government has no reserve powers of intervention even in a failing institution. 
  29. **^** Paton, Graeme (5 January 2012). "Taxpayer funding of universities 'to drop to 100 year low'". _The Telegraph_. London. Retrieved  6 January 2012. 
  30. **^** "Higher Education". Privy Council Office. Retrieved  6 December 2007. 
  31. **^** Rigoberto Parada, José (Spring 2010). "Universidades públicas y privadas: Un enfoque tridimensional" (PDF). _Estudios Públicos_. **120** : 183–205. Retrieved 2015-10-17. 
  32. **^** Luzer, Daniel (13 April 2012). "Can We Make College Cheaper?". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  17 April 2012. 
  33. **^** Gladwell, Malcolm. (2005) "Getting In: the social logic of Ivy League admissions." The New Yorker, 10 October 2005 [1]
  34. **^** Tottie, Gunnel. (2001) _Introduction to American English_ Blackwell Publishing. p. 65. ISBN 0-631-19792-3.
  35. **^** "Princeton University | Financial Aid Without Loans". Princeton.edu. Retrieved  2012-12-09. 
  36. **^** Burrows, Toby (1993). _Serials Management in Australia and New Zealand_. Binghamton, NY: Haworth Press. p.  19\. ISBN 1-56024-453-4. 
  37. **^** Princeton Review (2004). _Guide to Studying Abroad_. New York, NY: The Princeton Review. p.  105\. ISBN 978-0-375-76371-7. 
  38. **^** Trounson, Andrew; Puddy, Rebecca (2011-10-18). "First private uni in 24 years led by Clinton". _The Australian_. Retrieved  2016-08-02. 

## External links[edit]

|

This article's **use ofexternal links may not follow Wikipedia's policies or
guidelines**.  Please improve this article by removing excessive or
inappropriate external links, and converting useful links where appropriate
into footnote references. _(April 2016)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this
template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
  * Private Universities Act 1992 – Bangladesh
  * Higher Education Commission – Pakistan
  * Free-fees initiative – Ireland
  * Higher Education Colleges Association – Ireland

Authority control |

  * GND: 4136328-0
  * NDL: 00571224

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Private_university&oldid=816181741"

Categories:

  * Private universities and colleges
  * Types of university or college
  * Education economics

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from May 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * CS1 uses Japanese-language script (ja)
  * CS1 Japanese-language sources (ja)
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from September 2017
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2010
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2010
  * Articles with unsourced statements from June 2017
  * All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2017
  * Wikipedia external links cleanup from April 2016
  * Wikipedia spam cleanup from April 2016
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Bosanski
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * فارسی
  * 한국어
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * עברית
  * Latina
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * മലയാളം
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * 日本語
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 19 December 2017, at 20:09.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

