

# Provost (education)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

This article includes a list of references, related reading or external links,
**but its sources remain unclear because it lacksinline citations**.  Please
help to improve this article by introducing more precise citations. _(December
2011)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
A **provost** is the senior academic administrator at many institutions of
higher education in the United States and Canada, the equivalent of a pro-
vice-chancellor at some institutions in the United Kingdom and Ireland, or a
Deputy Vice-Chancellor (Academic) at most Australian universities.

Additionally, the heads of certain colleges in the UK and Ireland are called
provosts; it is, in this sense, the equivalent of a master (or various other
titles for the head of the college) at other colleges.

## Contents

  * 1 Duties, role, titles, and selection
  * 2 Other titles and uses
  * 3 History
  * 4 See also
  * 5 References

## Duties, role, titles, and selection[edit]

The specific duties and areas of responsibility for a provost vary from one
institution to another, but usually include supervision and oversight of
curricular, instructional, and research affairs.

The various deans of a university's various schools, colleges, or faculties
generally report to the provost or jointly to the chief executive officer
(variously called president, chancellor, or rector) and the provost, as do the
heads of various interdisciplinary units and academic support functions, such
as libraries, student services, the registrar, admissions and information
technology. The provost, in turn, is responsible to the institution's chief
executive officer and governing board or boards (variously called the board of
trustees, the board of regents, the board of governors, or the corporation)
for oversight of all educational affairs and activities, including research
and academic personnel.

In many but not all North American institutions, the provost or equivalent is
the second-ranking officer in the administrative hierarchy. Often the provost
may serve as acting chief executive officer during a vacancy in that office or
when the incumbent is absent from campus for prolonged periods. In these
institutions, the title of provost is sometimes combined with those of _senior
vice president_ , _executive vice president_ , _executivevice chancellor_ , or
the like, to denote that officer's high standing.

Provosts are often chosen by a search committee made up of faculty members,
and are almost always drawn from the 'tenured faculty' or 'professional
administrators' with academic credentials, either at the institution or from
other institutions.

At some North American research universities and liberal arts colleges, other
titles may be used in place of or in combination with provost, such as **chief
academic officer** ( **CAO** ) or **vice president for academic affairs** (or
rarely, **academic vice president** , **academic vice rector** , or **vice
president for education** ). At smaller independent liberal arts colleges, the
chief academic officer may carry the title "dean of the college" or "dean of
the faculty" in addition to or instead of _provost_. For example, at Trinity
College in Hartford, Connecticut, the Dean of the Faculty is also the Vice
President for Academic Affairs and is the second-highest administrator,
directly beneath the President.

Provosts often receive staff support or delegate line responsibility for
certain administrative functions to one or more subordinates variously called
_assistant provost_ , _associate provost_ , _vice provost_ , or _deputy
provost_. The deputy provost is often the right hand person of the provost who
assumes the provost's responsibilities in the provost's absence.

##  Other titles and uses[edit]

State university systems in the United States are the state universities
operated and funded primarily by the state government. (They may include
multiple administratively independent campuses, or an integrated multi-campus
state university). In some state university systems, _provost_ may be the
title held by the head of branch campus. For example, until recently the
chancellors of the Newark and Camden campuses of Rutgers University in New
Jersey were known as provosts.

Sometimes the chief academic officer or chief medical officer of a university
medical center (also academic medical center) holds the title of provost.

In some universities, the chief administrative officer of a large academic
division may hold a provostial title. Finally, in some colleges and
universities, the title of provost (and the function of deputy to the
president or chancellor) may be separate from the function of chief academic
officer.

_Provost_ is the style of the heads of University College London; the Royal
College of Art; Oriel, Queen's and Worcester Colleges at Oxford; King's
College at Cambridge; Trinity College at Dublin; and St Leonard's College
(University of St Andrews). The chairman of the governors of Eton College is
also called a provost. There are also Provosts for the University of Reading
Malaysia Campus.

##  History[edit]

The title "provost" (Latin: _praepositus_ ) was used in England in medieval
times for the head of colleges such as Oriel College, Oxford and Eton College.
In the context of local government, the title is even older; see Provost
(civil)

The first use of the title in American and Canadian higher education is
unclear. At the University of Pennsylvania and Columbia University, the title
dates from the late 18th and early 19th centuries, respectively. At the
University of Pennsylvania, the administrative head of the university was
titled provost until the 1930s, when the Board of Trustees created a separate
office of president and re-designated the provost as chief academic officer
and subordinate to the new presidency. At Columbia University, the Board of
Trustees established the office of provost in 1811, only to abolish it five
years later. The Trustees and the president of the university re-established
the office of provost in 1912. Although the precise title of the office has
changed over time, the responsibility as Columbia's chief academic officer has
remained constant.

Other North American universities and colleges created provostships during and
after World War II when dramatic increases in undergraduate enrollments (due
to the G.I. Bill) and the increased complexity of higher education
administration, led many chief executive officers to adopt a more corporate
governing structure. By the 1960s, most of the other Ivy League institutions
(Dartmouth, Yale, Princeton, Cornell, and Brown) had provosts (or
equivalents), as did other private research universities such as the
University of Chicago, Stanford University, Rice University, Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, Tufts University, Emory University, Wake Forest
University and Duke University.

At Harvard University, the office of provost has had two distinct
incarnations. The office's first incarnation was during World War II and the
immediate postwar era. James Bryant Conant, the president of the university
from 1933 to 1953, asked the Harvard Corporation (the more senior of the two
governing boards) to create the office of provost in October 1945, at time
when he (Conant) spent a great deal of time in Washington, D.C. as chairman of
the National Defense Research Committee. Conant appointed historian Paul
Herman Buck, the dean of the Faculty of Arts of Sciences (FAS), to
concurrently serve as provost. (The original legislation required that the
provost be concurrently dean of FAS.) As provost and dean, Buck had oversight
of FAS (which includes Harvard College, the Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, the Extension School, the Summer School, and what is now called the
School of Engineering and Applied Sciences) and its affiliated laboratories,
research centres, and museums. However, he had no authority over Harvard's
professional schools (at that time, the Divinity School, the Law School, the
Faculty of Medicine, the School of Public Health, and the Graduate Schools of
Business Administration, Design, Education, and Public Administration). The
provost's office was eliminated when Conant retired from Harvard's presidency
in 1953. During the presidencies of Nathan Marsh Pusey (1953–1971) and Derek
C. Bok (1971–1993), the deans of Harvard's nine faculties reported directly to
the president, with the dean of FAS being _primus inter pares_. The second
incarnation began in 1993, when then-Harvard President Neil Rudenstine asked
the Corporation to recreate the provostship as a second university-wide
academic officer other than the president. A section of Harvard's 1997 Re-
accreditation Report for the New England Commission of Colleges and Schools
reads:

> The Provost at Harvard acts as an extension of the President. He is the
second academic officer, after the President, having purview of the entire
University. The Provost has special responsibility for fostering intellectual
interactions across the University, including the five Interfaculty
Initiatives (environment, ethics and the professions, schooling and children,
mind/brain/behavior, and health policy). The Provost also acts to help improve
the quality and efficiency of central services organized at Harvard under the
aegis of the Vice Presidents.

## See also[edit]

  * Director (education)
  * Postgraduate education
  * Principal (university)
  * Professor
  * Undergraduate education

## References[edit]

  * Freeland, Richard M. (1992). _Academia's Golden Age: Universities in Massachusetts, 1945–1970_. New York: Oxford University Press.
  * Keller, Morton & Keller, Phyllis (2001). _Making Harvard Modern: The Rise of America's University_. New York: Oxford University Press.
  * Lloyd, Mark. "A History of Penn Provosts". Penn Archives and Record Center.
  * "History of Cornell's Provosts", "About the Provost", Cornell University Office of the Provost.
  * "Dean of the Faculty and Vice President for Academic Affairs", Trinity College (Connecticut)

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Provost_(education)&oldid=796561518"

Categories:

  * University governance
  * Academic administrators
  * Education and training occupations

Hidden categories:

  * Articles lacking in-text citations from December 2011
  * All articles lacking in-text citations

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Deutsch
  * Simple English

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 August 2017, at 18:00.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[m.]: married
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887

