

# Qatar Foundation

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Qatar Foundation Formation | 1995 (1995)  
---|---  
Type | Non-profit organization  
Headquarters | Education City, Doha, Qatar[1]  
Location |

  * Doha, Qatar

  
  
Key people

| Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani, founder  
Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, chairperson  
Website | qf.org.qa  
  
**Qatar Foundation for Education, Science and Community Development** (Arabic:
مؤسسة قطر‎) is a semi-private chartered, non-profit organization in Qatar,
founded in 1995 by then-emir Sheikh Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani and his second
wife Moza bint Nasser. In addition to private funding, it is government-
supported and in some ways government-funded.[2] Qatar Foundation (QF),
chaired by Sheikha Moza bint Nasser, has spearheaded Qatar's endeavors to
establish itself as a leader in education, science, and cultural development
on both, a regional and global scale.[3] QF has stated an aim "to support
Qatar on its journey from a carbon economy to a knowledge economy by unlocking
human potential."[4]

The organization's initiatives are oriented towards education, science and
research, and community development. It has solicited a number of
international universities to establish campuses in Qatar as part of its goal
to develop a youth population with the necessary expertise to maintain a
knowledge economy. Its main science and research agenda is developing Qatar's
technological capacity by researching new technologies which can be
successfully commercialized. In addition to diversifying the economy, this
strategy also helps satisfy Qatar's aim of becoming a research and development
hub.[5] The foundation's social development programs aim to preserve Qatar's
culture, "foster a progressive society" and to confront pressing social
issues.[6]

Joint venture partnerships in the areas of design, information and
communication technologies, policy studies, and event management also
contribute to fulfilling the objectives of Qatar Foundation. Several small
Qatari firms have thrived under the auspices of the Foundation; one example
being Pragmatech, a subsidiary of United Development Company which has
established a reputation for its text processing, document summarizing and
referencing software.[7]

## Contents

  * 1 Education
    * 1.1 K–12 education
    * 1.2 Higher education
    * 1.3 Events
  * 2 Science and research
    * 2.1 Research initiatives
    * 2.2 Environmental initiatives
    * 2.3 Medicine initiatives
    * 2.4 Events
  * 3 Social development
    * 3.1 Arts and culture initiatives
    * 3.2 Community initiatives
    * 3.3 Events
  * 4 Joint ventures
  * 5 Sponsorship
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## Education[edit]

### K–12 education[edit]

In primary and secondary education, Qatar Foundation has several initiatives.
Examples include establishing five Qatar Academy branches,[8] opening Awsaj
Academy, a school for children with learning difficulties,[9] and opening
Qatar Leadership Academy in collaboration with the Qatar Armed Forces.[10]
Furthermore, the foundation launched the Academic Bridge Program, a post-
secondary school program that helps students transition from high school to
university.[11]

A major reform of the K–12 education system was embarked upon by Qatar
Foundation in 2003, resulting in the formation of the RAND-Qatar Policy
Institute and the subsequent publishing of the institute's assessment and
recommendations in _Education for a New Era: Design and Implementation of K-12
Education Reform in Qatar_. As a response to declining standardized test
scores, Qatar Foundation terminated its partnership with the RAND Corporation
in 2013.[12]

###  Higher education[edit]

In higher education, Qatar Foundation established branch campuses of eight
international universities at the main campus just outside Doha:

  * 1998 – Virginia Commonwealth University, with programs in art and design.[13]
  * 2002 – Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar opened, offering a two-year pre-medical program and a four-year medical program leading to an MD.[14]
  * 2003 – Texas A&M University at Qatar opened, offering programs in chemical, electrical, petroleum, and mechanical engineering.[15]
  * 2004 – Carnegie Mellon University Qatar opened, offering programs in computer science, business, biological sciences, computational biology, and information systems.[16]
  * 2005 – Georgetown University School of Foreign Service in Qatar opened, offering programs in international affairs.[17]
  * 2008 – Northwestern University in Qatar opened, offering programs in journalism and communications.[18]
  * 2011 – HEC Paris in Qatar launched the first EMBA in the country.[19]
  * 2011 – University College London Qatar opened, offering postgraduate qualifications in museum studies, conservation, and archaeology in partnership with Qatar Museums Authority.[20]

These centers sit alongside the Qatar Faculty of Islamic Studies which began
its first graduate classes in the 2007–2008 academic year. An international
center for Islamic thinking and dialogue, it aims to produce scholars who are
grounded in Islamic faith, practice and civilization. It offers master's
degrees in Islamic finance, contemporary Islamic studies and Islamic public
policy.

Roughly half of these universities' students are Qatari,[21] and it is claimed
that around 90 different nationalities in total are represented by the
students, faculty and staff at the Foundation campus.[22]

The Foundation has managed to make an impact within its first decade or so in
operation. Scholars at the centers such as Weill Cornell Medical College have
made contributions to studies on genetics and AIDS, and the peer-reviewed
periodical Academic Medicine published a study on Weill Cornell Medical
College’s Medical Ethics and Humanities course for premedical students.[23]
The course, first offered in 2003, is designed to prepare students for the
medical school curriculum, and the report pointed to challenges such as cross-
cultural tensions that could emerge when introducing themes from Western
medical ethics and humanities into an Islamic context like Qatar. "The authors
outline the response to this challenge and strategies to broaden student
inquiry without engaging in indoctrination," it said.[24]

### Events[edit]

As part of the Foundation's activities in education, it sponsors the World
Innovation Summit for Education (WISE), a global forum that brings together
education professionals, opinion leaders and decision-makers from all over the
world to discuss educational issues. The summit has been held in Doha since
2009.[25]

## Science and research[edit]

A program known as the Qatar Science Leadership Program was initiated in 2008
in order to help develop aspiring applied science students. In 2014, the
program's first PhD scholar graduated from university.[26] The majority of the
universities on Qatar Foundation's campus run their own research programs,
often collaborating with QF's own applied research bodies.[27] In addition to
the university programs, QF has formed international partnerships, including
with the Royal Society and the James Baker Institute for Public Policy at Rice
University.[28]

Stars of Science, a reality TV show was launched in 2009 in order to discover
"young Arab innovators". The show features Arab innovators who compete to
transform ideas into marketable products. A cash prize of $1 million is
awarded to the winner.[29]

### Research initiatives[edit]

A notable research initiative organized by Qatar Foundation is the Qatar
National Research Fund (QNRF), which was established in 2006.[30] The QNRF
subsidizes competitively selected research by both local and international
researchers for projects that adhere to Qatar's national research strategy.
This initiative is geared towards the development of a knowledge-based
economy.[31]

In 2007, a research division was established at Qatar Foundation to manage
developing a scientific community in Qatar. It has hosted several
international conferences in the fields of biotechnology, nanotechnology, and
stem cell research.[32] The research division also formed the Distinguished
Lecture Series, which exposes Qatari students, researchers, and the public to
distinguished scientists.[33]

The Qatar Science & Technology Park (QSTP), a research and development hub,
was inaugurated in March 2009.[34] At an investment of more than $800 million
by Qatar Foundation,[35] it became Qatar's first free-trade zone.[36] In 2010,
the Qatar Computing Research Institute (QCRI) was founded as a vehicle to
conduct multidisciplinary applied computing research. Research topics include
Arabic language computer technologies, computer security and data
analysis.[37]

### Environmental initiatives[edit]

In the environmental sciences, Qatar Foundation founded the Qatar Green
Building Council in 2009 with the aim of promoting the importance of
environmental sustainability.[38]

The Qatar Environmental & Energy Research Institute (QEERI) was launched in
2011 and encompasses the fields of energy, environment, food and water
resources. The institute's vision places an emphasis on the research of
alternative energy technology.[39]

### Medicine initiatives[edit]

In 2012, the Qatar Biomedical Research Institute (QBRI) was established to
develop translational biomedical research and biotechnology, focusing on
diabetes, cancer and cardiovascular diseases.[40] Another initiative launched
by Qatar Foundation is the Sidra Medical and Research Center, which is set to
be the first hospital of its kind in the Middle East region. Endowed with $7.9
billion by Qatar Foundation, it is a large-scale project designed with upscale
healthcare and education facilities intended to provide health services to the
whole GCC region.[41] After several delays, the opening was postponed to
2016.[42]

### Events[edit]

In June 2011, Qatar Foundation hosted the seventh World Conference of Science
Journalists, which had been scheduled to be held in Cairo but was moved to
Doha as a result of the 2011 Egyptian Revolution.[43] In 2012, the 18th United
Nations Climate Change Conference (or 'Conference of the Parties', or more
commonly 'COP18') was held at Qatar National Convention Centre under the
auspices of Qatar Foundation.[44] The inaugural World Innovation Summit for
Health (WISH) was launched by Qatar Foundation at the Qatar National
Convention Centre in December 2013. The event witnessed over 500 attendees
from 40 different countries discuss international health problems.[45]

## Social development[edit]

Qatar Foundation's community development initiatives are based on three
primary pillars. The first pillar mandates the "fostering of a progressive
society". Secondly, "enhancing cultural life and protecting Qatar’s heritage"
is enshrined in the foundation's community development policy.[6] This goal is
signified by the presence of the a _sidra tree_ in the foundation's logo, a
symbol associated with the Islamic Sidrat al-Muntaha and an evergreen tree,
_Ziziphus spina-christi_ , which is native to Qatar.[46] The last pillar
involves "addressing the community's immediate social needs".[6] An example of
an initiative designed to meet this goal is the Qatar Diabetes Association,
which was incorporated in Qatar Foundation in order to raise public awareness
of the rising rates of diabetes and assist in its management.[47]

### Arts and culture initiatives[edit]

An Arabic calligraphy exhibition hosted by Qatar Foundation in September 2014

Al Shaqab, an equine education resource centre, became a member of Qatar
Foundation in 2004.[48] The institution is considered a testament to the
historic role that horse racing and breeding played in Qatari culture.[49]
Facilities include a riding academy, an endurance training complex, and a
centre for the breeding and showing of Arabian horses.[50]

Al Jazeera Children's Channel (JCC) was launched in 2005 as a joint venture
between Al Jazeera and Qatar Foundation with the aim of "preserving Arab
cultural identity". With 90 percent of the channel being owned by Qatar
Foundation, it broadcast from the Foundation's Doha campus along with Baraem,
the Arabic channel aimed at preschoolers. Al Jazeera announced in 2013 that it
was in the process of acquiring full ownership of the channel.[51]

In 2006, Qatar National Library (then known as Dar Al Kutub Library) became a
member of Qatar Foundation.[52] On November 19, 2012, Moza bint Nasser,
chairperson of Qatar Foundation, announced plans for a new national
library.[53] Education City was chosen as the location of the new library.[54]
A notable attraction within the library is the Arab and Islamic Heritage
section which contains a historic collection of books, periodicals,
manuscripts, maps, and scientific instruments dating back to the 15th
century.[52] One of the largest online collections of historic records on the
Persian Gulf countries was digitized in October 2014 and made available on the
website of the Qatar Digital Library (QDL).[55] The website was the
culmination of a partnership established between Qatar Foundation, Qatar
National Library, and the British Library in 2012.[56]

In 2008, the Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra was established.[57] Founded with a
base of around 100 musicians, the orchestra's mission is to augment Qatar's
cultural climate by honoring both Arab and Western musical culture through
public performances.[58]

Qatar Foundation opened Mathaf: Arab Museum of Modern Art in December 2010 in
association with Qatar Museums Authority. In addition to hosting exhibitions,
the museum holds one of the largest collections of sculptures and paintings by
Arab artists in the world.[59] The museum has also published an online
encyclopedia of Arab artists.[60]

Msheireb Properties (a subsidiary of Qatar Foundation) initiated a $5.5
billion commercial development project in Doha in January 2010.[61] Originally
called "Heart of Doha", the project was renamed "Msheireb Downtown Doha" in
reference to the historical name of the area.[62]

### Community initiatives[edit]

The Qatar Diabetes Association, founded in 1995, became a member of Qatar
Foundation in 1999. Its mission is to provide programs and services to assist
the general public in the management and prevention of diabetes.[63]

The Social Development Center was established in 1996 by Moza bint Nasser to
organize community programs for Qatari families.[64] It promotes the building
of stable and self-sufficient families by offering workplace training and
providing courses in financial management. Another cardinal goal of the center
involves promoting Islamic social values.[65]

Qatar Foundation established Reach Out To Asia (ROTA) – a charity initiative
focused on assisting community development projects in Asian countries – in
2005. ROTA campaigns for education in developing countries.[66] The
organization has carried out activities in countries such as Pakistan,
Indonesia, Lebanon, and Gaza.[67]

In 2006, Moza bint Nasser founded The Doha International Family Institute
(DIFI). The institute conducts research and promotes scholarship on the legal,
sociological and scientific basis of the family as the fundamental unit of
society. It has consultative status with the United Nations Economic and
Social Council (UNECOSOC).[68]

### Events[edit]

The QatarDebate Center was established in 2007. In addition to organizing
workshops and competitions with the intent of raising the standards of open
discussion among Qatari students, the center also hosted the World Schools
Debating Championship in 2010.[69] Also launched in 2007 was the Qatar Career
Fair (QCF), an annual event held at the Qatar National Convention Centre which
showcases the range of career options available to Qatari students and
graduates.[70]

The Qatar National Convention Centre was inaugurated by QF in December
2011.[71] It features a 2,300-seat auditorium.[72]

## Joint ventures[edit]

Joint ventures in the fields of science and research, education and social
development are deemed essential to Qatar's transition from an oil-based
economy to a knowledge-based economy, as outlined in the Qatar National Vision
2030.[73] Thus, the Foundation has set up a number of commercial joint
ventures with global partners. Profits generated are shared by both parties,
with Qatar Foundation's portion being distributed into its core nonprofit
activities.[74]

Fitch Qatar is a joint venture design company that creates brands and develops
corporate identities for businesses and other organizations.[75] It was
jointly created by QF with Fitch London. Some of the company's clientele
include the National Health Authority, the Qatar Museums Authority, and Barwa
Group.[76]

Qatar MICE Development Institute (QMDI) is a joint venture created with Singex
Global to manage conferences, conventions, and other events.[77] It was formed
in 2007. One of the company's main areas of focus is the QF's Qatar National
Convention Centre.[78]

Vodafone entered in a partnership with QF to establish Vodafone Qatar in 2008.
It was granted a fixed telecommunications in September 2008, thereby becoming
the second mobile network operator to be licensed in the country.[79] It
officially launched its services in Qatar in March 2009.[80]

Launched in November 2008, MEEZA is a joint-venture IT service provider
catering to businesses.[81] It was established to support Qatar's ICT sector
amidst the country's population boom and technological transition.[82] A major
agreement was reached by Meeza in December 2015 stipulating the management of
Maersk Oil's IT operations in Qatar.[83]

Qatar Solar Technologies (QSTec) is an alternative energy company created in
2010 as part of a partnership between Qatar Foundation, SolarWorld and Qatar
Development Bank.[84] In December 2011, QSTec announced that it would be
constructing a production plant in Ras Laffan Industrial City with a planned
initial capacity of 4,000 metric tons of polysilicon every year.[85] In August
2017, SolarWorld founder Frank Asbeck and QSTec bought out SolarWorld in a
joint venture deal and rebranded it as SolarWorld Industries.[86]

Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing (BQFP), launched in tandem with
Bloomsbury Publishing, became the first publishing house to be established in
Qatar in December 2008.[87] It formerly published books in Arabic and English
with the mission of promoting a culture of literacy throughout the region.[88]
It became defunct in December 2015 and all of its publications were
incorporated in the newly established HBKU Press, a member of QF. At the time
of BQFP's dissolution it had published over 200 books.[89] Bloomsbury Qatar
Foundation Journals (BQFJ), an open access, peer review academic publisher,
was also incorporated in HBKU Press.[89] BQFJ began publishing journal
research articles through its website _Qscience.com_ in December 2010, during
the 2010 Qatar Foundation Annual Research Forum.[90] The website maintained
more than fifteen specialized and multidisciplinary journals in 2014.[91]

##  Sponsorship[edit]

On 10 December 2010, FC Barcelona announced it had agreed a shirt sponsorship
deal worth up to €170 million with Qatar Sports Investments to place Qatar
Foundation's name on the front of the team's shirts, ending Barcelona's
tradition of not accepting payment for sponsors displayed on its jersey. The
deal included a clause allowing a switch in sponsor after the first two
seasons, so Qatar Airways took over as the main sponsor in July 2013.[92][93]

In October 2011, the Wikimedia Foundation announced a plan to work with the
Qatar Foundation to support the growth of the Arabic Wikipedia.[94] Later, the
media reported that the Wikipedia page for the Qatar Foundation was allegedly
edited by a public relations associate of the foundation, for which there was
"strong, if circumstantial evidence".[95] It was claimed by Qatar Foundation
in November 2015 that the partnership had culminated in the creation of over
6,000 articles on the Arabic Wikipedia.[96]

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Qatar Foundation Stadium". Supreme Committee for Delivery & Legacy. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  2. **^** "2010 Human Rights Report: Qatar". US Department of State. 2011-04-08. Retrieved  2012-09-19. 
  3. **^** "Qatar and its emir: He'll do it his way". The Economist. 27 May 2010.  
  4. **^** "About Qatar Foundation". Qatar Foundation. Archived from the original on 2012-11-02. Retrieved  2012-09-19. 
  5. **^** "About us". Qatar Foundation Research & Development. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Fostering a Progressive Society While Protecting Qatar's Heritage". Qatar Foundation Telegraph. 24 August 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  7. **^** "From oil to business tourism". Le Monde Diplomatique. 11 November 2011.  
  8. **^** "Qatar Academy Msheireb Opens Its Doors". Qatar Foundation. 17 September 2014. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  9. **^** "Qatar Foundation's Awsaj Academy students win prestigious awards for pioneering research". Al Bawaba. 7 July 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  10. **^** "History". Qatar Leadership Academy. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  11. **^** "Academic Bridge Program hosts international college fair". The Peninsula. 15 April 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  12. **^** Shabina S. Khatri (23 December 2013). "Rand and Qatar Foundation officially part ways after 10 years". Doha News. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  13. **^** Tom Gresham (14 November 2008). "VCU School of the Arts in Qatar Celebrates 10th Anniversary". VCU News. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  14. **^** "Opening of Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar Celebrated". Weill Cornell Medical College. 12 October 2002. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  15. **^** Reeve Hamilton (25 May 2012). "After 10 Years in Qatar, A&M Looking Forward to 10 More". The Texas Tribune. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  16. **^** "History". Carnegie Mellon University Qatar. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  17. **^** Ian Philbrick (29 January 2015). "DC to Qatar: A Georgetown presence in Doha". The Georgetown Voice. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  18. **^** "Northwestern University in Qatar Hosts Students at Reception". Northwestern University. 15 April 2008. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  19. **^** "1st anniversary of the HEC Executive MBA in Qatar". HEC Paris. 30 January 2012. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  20. **^** "University College London coming to Education City". The Peninsula. 29 October 2010. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  21. **^** _The Report: Qatar 2008_. Oxford Business Group. 2008. p. 239.  
  22. **^** "Siblings Embrace Qatar Foundation's Vision" (Press release). Qatar Foundation. 20 September 2015. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  23. **^** Teebi, Ahmad (2010). "Genetic Disorders Among Arab Populations". Springer. 
  24. **^** del Pozo, Pablo Rodríguez, and Fins, Joseph (February 2005). "The Globalization of Education in Medical Ethics and Humanities: Evolving Pedagogy at Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar". _Academic Medicine_. pp.  135–140. CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link)
  25. **^** "The WISE Summit". WISE Qatar. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  26. **^** "Qatar Science Leadership Program Celebrates First PhD Scholar" (Press release). Qatar Foundation. 9 April 2014. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  27. **^** Badry, Fatima; Willoughby, John (2015). _Higher Education Revolutions in the Gulf: Globalization and Institutional Viability_. Routledge. p. 66\. ISBN 978-0415505659.  
  28. **^** "HBKU partners with Baker Institute for week-long student exchange program". _qatarisbooming.com_. 12 March 2014. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  29. **^** "Syrian innovator wins Stars of Science finale". The Peninsula. 21 November 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  30. **^** Gary Cecchine et al. (2012). "Sustaining the Qatar National Research Fund" (PDF). RAND Institute. p. iii. ISBN 978-0-8330-5821-8. Retrieved 29 November 2015. CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link)
  31. **^** "Vision & mission". Qatar National Research Fund. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  32. **^** "Qatar Foundation champions next generation of scientists on Qatar National Day". _qatarisbooming.com_. 18 December 2013. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  33. **^** "Qatar Foundation Distinguished Lecture Series". Qatar Foundation Research Division. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  34. **^** "Qatar Science and Technology Park". Qatar e-Government. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  35. **^** Vineetha Menon (23 February 2009). "Qatar Foundation pumps $800 million into R&D hub". Arabian Business. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  36. **^** Lesley Walker (14 July 2015). "Qatari-Spanish JV win QR1.6bn contract to build new economic zone". Doha News. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  37. **^** "Karem Sakallah Continues Commitment to Qatar Computing Research Institute". Computer Science and Engineering School, University of Michigan. 3 February 2014. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  38. **^** Erika Widen (24 August 2015). "Meshal Al Shamari Believes In A Greener Future: Building Sustainably Is A Qatari Priority". Entrepreneur. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  39. **^** Miles Masterson (25 November 2012). "Leading Qatar's energy quest". The Edge. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  40. **^** "Qatar establishes itself as a regional base for research and innovation". Oxford Business Group. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  41. **^** Peter Pallot (15 July 2014). "Qatar offers free health care – but red tape can cause stress". The Telegraph. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  42. **^** Peter Kovessy (18 June 2015). "Sidra's Qatar staff told to expect more delays before hospital opens". Doha News. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  43. **^** "WCSJ2011 moves to Doha, Qatar - June 27 to 29, 2011 | World Conference of Science Journalists 2011". Wcsj2011.org. 2012-09-15. Retrieved  2012-09-19. 
  44. **^** "NASA, Qatar Foundation and UNDP Cooperate on Climate Research and Desertification". _arabpressreleases.qa_. Qatar News Agency. 30 November 2012. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  45. **^** Jo Seed (4 March 2014). "WISH Summit 2015: Collaborating to innovate for a healthier world". Imperial College London. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  46. **^** "About". Qatar Foundation. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  47. **^** "QDA unveils fifth regional youth diabetes camp". The Peninsula. 13 April 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  48. **^** "History of Al Shaqab". Al Shaqab. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  49. **^** "QF's Latest Hospitality Venue Now Open at AL SHAQAB". Qatar Foundation Telegraph. 24 June 2014. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  50. **^** John Bambridge (16 April 2012). "Stable environment". Construction Week Online. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  51. **^** "Official: JCC to leave Qatar Foundation for Al Jazeera". Doha News. 15 June 2013. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Heritage Collection". Qatar National Library. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  53. **^** Lux, Claudia (2014). "Qatar National Library – Architecture as innovation in the Arab world." _International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions Journal_ , 40(3), 174-181; p. 176. Retrieved 29 November 2015.
  54. **^** "Director's Welcome". Qatar National Library. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  55. **^** "Now, access Omani history online". Times of Oman. 21 October 2014. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  56. **^** "One million rare, historical documents to go online". Gulf Times. 19 January 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  57. **^** "Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra in 2015". Marhaba. 4 January 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  58. **^** Rachel Morris (29 July 2010). "Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra". Oryx In-Flight Magazine. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  59. **^** "In Qatar, Arab modern art gets its first museum". Al Arabiya. 17 February 2011. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  60. **^** Joanne Lisinski, Nada Shabout & Dr. Samia Touati (2014). "Mathaf Encyclopedia Of Modern Art And The Arab World". _Qatar Foundation Annual Research Conference Proceedings_. **1**. doi:10.5339/qfarc.2014.SSPP1043. Retrieved  29 November 2015. CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link)
  61. **^** "Carillion and QBC land $650m Msheireb contract". Construction Week Online. 6 December 2011. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  62. **^** "$5bn Dohaland project renamed Musheireb". Trade Arabia. 18 January 2010. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  63. **^** Isabel Ovalle (14 October 2012). "Not a sweet life: Diabetes catches them young". The Peninsula. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  64. **^** "About us". Social Development Center. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  65. **^** " "نبذة عن "غيّرها" (in Arabic). Social Development center. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  66. **^** _The Report: Qatar 2009_. Oxford Business Group. 2009. p. 25.  
  67. **^** Coates Ulrichsen, Kristian (2014). _Qatar and the Arab Spring_. Oxford University Press. p. 76\. ISBN 978-0190210977.  
  68. **^** "Doha International Family Institute Announces Best Research Papers". Marhaba. 12 May 2015. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  69. **^** "QatarDebate Center trained over 6,000 international students in three years". The Peninsula. 7 July 2010. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  70. **^** Fazeena Saleem (1 April 2012). "Qatari jobseekers pin hopes on Career Fair". The Peninsula. Retrieved 29 November 2015. 
  71. **^** Habib Toumi (4 December 2011). "National convention centre opens in Doha". Manama: Gulf News. Retrieved 18 February 2016. 
  72. **^** "Qatar National Convention Centre / Arata Isozaki". Arch Daily. 10 September 2013. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  73. **^** "Serving a Vision". Qatar Foundation. Retrieved  30 November 2015. 
  74. **^** "QATAR FOUNDATION – Who we are and what we do" (Press kit). _qatarsustainability.com_. Qatar Foundation. p.  8. Retrieved 30 November 2015. 
  75. **^** "FITCH moves forward to address region's growing branding and design needs". _qatarisbooming.com_. 24 October 2011. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  76. **^** "VCUQatar presents 'Future Trends in Retail' by Rodney Fitch on 17 November, 6:30 PM VCUQatar Atrium". _ArtFacts.net_. 17 November 2009. Retrieved  18 February 2016. 
  77. **^** "Qatar invests in UK's largest renewable energy show". _altenergymag.com_. 13 February 2009. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  78. **^** Karen Yue (11 June 2008). "Qatar moves in on MICE market". Singapore: TTG Asia. Retrieved 18 February 2016. 
  79. **^** "Second Fixed Telecom License Announced". ICT Qatar. 15 September 2008. Retrieved  11 February 2016. 
  80. **^** "Vodafone Qatar raises $1bn as the Gulf rediscovers the joy of IPOs". The Telegraph. 3 May 2009. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  81. **^** "Meeza opens new data centre". Trade Arabia. 7 March 2009. Retrieved  11 February 2016. 
  82. **^** Rumana Shaikh (31 October 2014). "Transport, Internet and other issues addressed at the Town Hall Meeting". The Daily Q. Retrieved 11 February 2016. 
  83. **^** "MEEZA and Maersk Oil Sign Milestone Agreement". Gulf News 24/7. 8 December 2015. Retrieved  11 February 2016. 
  84. **^** Amanda H. Miller (8 June 2012). "Qatar Solar Technologies get unprecedented $1 billion in single-source financing". Clean Energy Authority. Retrieved 11 February 2016. 
  85. **^** "Ray of light: Qatari Solar technology". The New Economy. 13 December 2011. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  86. **^** Tobias Buck (17 August 2017). "Solarworld resurrected with the help of Qatari investment". Financial Times. Retrieved 18 August 2017. 
  87. **^** Harding, Sue-Ann (2014). "'But we don't read, Professor!' Translation, Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing, and building a 'vibrant literary culture'". _Perspectives: Studies in Translatology_. Taylor  & Francis. **22** (4): Abstract. doi:10.1080/0907676X.2014.948891. Retrieved  11 February 2016. 
  88. **^** Alison Flood and Ian Black (15 October 2008). "Publishers seek new talent in Arab world". The Guardian. Retrieved 29 November 2015. CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter (link)
  89. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Charlotte Eyre (22 December 2015). "Qatar's QF and Bloomsbury end partnership". The Bookseller. Retrieved 11 February 2016. 
  90. **^** " "مؤسسة قطر" تطلق المنبر الإلكتروني QScience.com لنشر الدوريات" (in Arabic). Al Wasat News. 25 December 2010. Retrieved 18 February 2016. 
  91. **^** "QScience to adopt Rubriq's Independent peer review process to speed publication time and increase trust". Qatar Foundation. 17 February 2014. Retrieved  29 November 2015. 
  92. **^** "Record agreement with Qatar | FCBarcelona.cat". Fcbarcelona.com. 2011-07-01. Retrieved  2012-09-19. 
  93. **^** "Barcelona agree record shirt deal". _BBC News_. 10 December 2010.  
  94. **^** "Wikimedia Foundation to Launch Arabic catalyst". The Wikimedia Foundation. Retrieved  4 October 2011. 
  95. **^** Tim Sampson (2014-03-21). "Major Wikipedia donors accused of conflict-of-interest editing". The Daily Dot. Retrieved 2015-11-27. 
  96. **^** "Stars Of Science: Qatar Leads Arab World's Emerging Culture of Science". Qatar Foundation. 17 November 2015. Retrieved  30 November 2015. 

## External links[edit]

  * Official website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Qatar Foundation مؤسسة قطر  
  
---  
Education |

  * Academic Bridge Program
  * Carnegie Mellon University in Qatar
  * Georgetown University in Qatar
  * Hamad Bin Khalifa University
  * HEC Paris in Qatar
  * Northwestern University in Qatar
  * Qatar Academy
  * Qatar Faculty of Islamic Studies
  * Texas A&M University at Qatar
  * UCL Qatar
  * Virginia Commonwealth University in Qatar
  * Weill Cornell Medicine-Qatar
  * World Innovation Summit for Education

  
  
Science and Research |

  * QScience
  * Qatar BioBank
  * Qatar Biomedical Research Institute
  * Qatar Cardiovascular Research Center
  * Qatar Computing Research Institute
  * Qatar Environment and Energy Research Institute
  * Qatar Green Building Council
  * Qatar National Research Fund
  * Qatar Science & Technology Park
  * Qatar Solar Technologies
  * Sidra Medical and Research Center
  * Translation and Interpreting Institute
  * World Innovation Summit for Health

  
  
Community Development |

  * Al Shaqab
  * Baraem
  * Doha International Institute for Family Studies and Development
  * Jeem TV
  * Mathaf Arab Museum of Modern Art
  * QatarDebate
  * Qatar Diabetes Society
  * Qatar Digital Library
  * Qatar National Library
  * Qatar Philharmonic Orchestra
  * QF Radio
  * Qur’anic Botanic Garden
  * Reach Out To Asia
  * Stars of Science

  
  
Joint Ventures |

  * Bloomsbury Qatar Foundation Publishing (defunct)
  * Fitch Qatar
  * HBKU Press
  * MEEZA
  * Qatar MICE Development Institute
  * Qatar National Convention Centre
  * RAND-Qatar Policy Institute (defunct)
  * Vodafone Qatar

  
  
Key people |

  * Moza bint Nasser
  * Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani
  * Mohammad Fathy Saoud
  * Hind bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Education City
  * Msheireb Downtown Doha

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Qatar_Foundation&oldid=810369725"

Categories:

  * Educational organisations in Qatar
  * Scientific organisations based in Qatar
  * Educational foundations
  * Organizations established in 1995
  * World Digital Library partners
  * 1995 establishments in Qatar

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 maint: Uses authors parameter
  * CS1 Arabic-language sources (ar)
  * Articles containing Arabic-language text

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Català
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Türkçe
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 14 November 2017, at 21:06.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

