

# Qatar

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on _21 December 2017_.

Jump to: navigation, search

For other places with the same name, see Qatar (disambiguation).

Coordinates: 25°30′N 51°15′E﻿ / ﻿25.500°N 51.250°E﻿ / 25.500; 51.250

State of Qatar  

دولة قطر (Arabic)  
_Dawlat Qatar_  
  
---  
  
Flag

Emblem  
  
**Anthem:  **السلام الأميري  
_As-Salam al-Amiri_   (transliteration)  
_Amiri Salute_  
  
  
Location and extent of Qatar (dark green) on the Arabian Peninsula.  
  
Capital  
and largest city | Doha  
25°18′N 51°31′E﻿ / ﻿25.300°N 51.517°E﻿ / 25.300; 51.517  
Official languages | Arabic  
Other languages | English  
Religion | Islam  
Demonym | Qatari  
Government | Unitary constitutional monarchy  
  
• Emir

| Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani  
  
• Deputy Emir

| Abdullah bin Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani  
  
• Prime Minister

| Abdullah bin Nasser bin Khalifa Al Thani  
Legislature | Consultative Assembly  
Establishment  
  
• Qatar National Day

| 18 December 1878  
  
• Declared independence

|  
1 September 1971  
  
• Independence from the United Kingdom

|  
3 September 1971  
Area  
  
• Total

| 11,581 km2 (4,471 sq mi) (158th)  
  
• Water (%)

| 0.8  
Population  
  
• 2016 estimate

| 2,675,522[a][1] (142nd)  
  
• 2010 census

| 1,699,435[2] (148th)  
  
• Density

| 176/km2 (455.8/sq mi) (76th)  
GDP (PPP) | 2017 estimate  
  
• Total

| $404.109 billion[3] (47th)  
  
• Per capita

| $145,894[3] (1st)  
GDP (nominal) | 2015 estimate  
  
• Total

| $185.395 billion[3]  
  
• Per capita

| $68,940[4] (4th)  
Gini (2007) | 41.1[5]  
medium  
HDI (2014) |  0.850[6]  
very high · 32nd  
Currency | Riyal (QAR)  
Time zone | AST (UTC+3)  
Drives on the | right[7]  
Calling code | +974  
ISO 3166 code | QA  
Internet TLD |

  * .qa
  * قطر.

  
  
| You may need rendering support to display the Arabic text in this article
correctly.  
---|---  
  
**Qatar** (/ ˈkætɑːr/,[9] /ˈkɑːtɑːr/ ( listen), /ˈkɑːtər/ or /kəˈtɑːr/ (
listen);[10] Arabic: قطر‎ _Qaṭar_ [ˈqɑtˤɑr] ; local vernacular pronunciation:
[ˈɡɪtˤɑr]),[11][12] officially the **State of Qatar** (Arabic:  دولة قطر‎
_Dawlat Qaṭar_ ), is a sovereign country located in Western Asia, occupying
the small Qatar Peninsula on the northeastern coast of the Arabian Peninsula.
Its sole land borders are with Saudi Arabia to the south and the UAE to the
southeast, with the rest of its territory surrounded by the Persian Gulf. An
arm of the Persian Gulf separates Qatar from the nearby island country of
Bahrain.

Following Ottoman rule, Qatar became a British protectorate in the early 20th
century until gaining independence in 1971. Qatar has been ruled by the House
of Thani since the early 19th century. Sheikh Jassim bin Mohammed Al Thani was
the founder of the State of Qatar. Qatar is a hereditary monarchy and its head
of state is Emir Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani. Whether it should be
regarded as a constitutional[13][14] or an absolute monarchy[15][16][17][18]
is disputed. In 2003, the constitution was overwhelmingly approved in a
referendum, with almost 98% in favour.[19][20] In early 2017, Qatar's total
population was 2.6 million: 313,000 Qatari citizens and 2.3 million
expatriates.[21]

Qatar is a high-income economy, backed by the world's third-largest natural-
gas reserves and oil reserves.[22] The country has the highest per capita
income in the world. Qatar is classified by the UN as a country of very high
human development and is widely regarded as the most advanced Arab state for
human development.[23] Qatar is a significant power in the Arab world,
reportedly supporting several rebel groups during the Arab Spring both
financially and through its globally expanding media group, Al Jazeera Media
Network.[24][25][26] For its size, Qatar wields disproportionate influence in
the world, and has been identified as a middle power.[27][28] Qatar will host
the 2022 FIFA World Cup, becoming the first Arab country to do so.[29]

In June 2017, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, the United Arab Emirates, and Egypt,
among other Gulf states, cut off diplomatic relations with Qatar, accusing it
of supporting and funding terrorism and manipulating internal affairs of its
neighboring states, an escalation of longstanding tensions with Saudi Arabia.

## Contents

  * 1 Etymology
  * 2 History
    * 2.1 Antiquity
    * 2.2 Early and late Islamic period (661–1783)
    * 2.3 Bahraini and Saudi rule (1783–1868)
    * 2.4 Ottoman rule (1871–1915)
    * 2.5 British rule (1916–1971)
    * 2.6 Independence and aftermath (1971–present)
  * 3 Politics
    * 3.1 Sharia law
    * 3.2 Human rights
    * 3.3 Foreign relations
    * 3.4 Military
  * 4 Administrative divisions
  * 5 Geography
    * 5.1 Biodiversity and environment
    * 5.2 Climate
  * 6 Economy
    * 6.1 Energy
  * 7 Demographics
    * 7.1 Religion
    * 7.2 Languages
  * 8 Culture
    * 8.1 Arts and museums
    * 8.2 Media
    * 8.3 Music
    * 8.4 Sport
  * 9 Education
  * 10 Healthcare
  * 11 See also
  * 12 References
  * 13 External links

## Etymology[edit]

Pliny the Elder, a Roman writer, documented the earliest account pertaining to
the inhabitants of the Peninsula around the mid-first century AD, referring to
them as the _Catharrei_ , a designation which may have derived from the name
of a prominent local settlement.[30][31] A century later, Ptolemy produced the
first known map to depict the peninsula, referring to it as _Catara_.[31][32]
The map also referenced a town named "Cadara" to the east of the
peninsula.[33] The term 'Catara' (inhabitants, _Cataraei_ )[34] was
exclusively used until the 18th century, after which 'Katara' emerged as the
most commonly recognised spelling.[33] Eventually, the modern derivative
_Qatar_ was adopted as the country's name.[33]

In Standard Arabic, the name is pronounced [ˈqɑtˤɑr], while in the local
dialect it is [ˈɡitˤar].[11]

## History[edit]

Main article: History of Qatar

### Antiquity[edit]

Dot carvings at Jebel Jassassiyeh, dating to c. 4000 BC.

Human habitation of Qatar dates back to 10,000 years ago.[35] Settlements and
tools dating back to the Stone Age have been unearthed in the peninsula.[35]
Mesopotamian artefacts originating from the Ubaid period (c. 6500–3800 BC)
have been discovered in abandoned coastal settlements.[36] Al Da'asa, a
settlement located on the western coast of Qatar, is the most important Ubaid
site in the country and is believed to have accommodated a small seasonal
encampment.[37][38]

Kassite Babylonian material dating back to the second millennium BC found in
Al Khor Islands attests to trade relations between the inhabitants of Qatar
and the Kassites in modern-day Bahrain.[39] Among the findings were 3,000,000
crushed snail shells and Kassite potsherds.[37] It has been suggested that
Qatar is the earliest known site of shellfish dye production, owing to a
Kassite purple dye industry which existed on the coast.[36][40]

In 224 AD, the Sasanian Empire gained control over the territories surrounding
the Persian Gulf.[41] Qatar played a role in the commercial activity of the
Sasanids, contributing at least two commodities: precious pearls and purple
dye.[42] Under the Sasanid reign, many of the inhabitants in Eastern Arabia
were introduced to Christianity following the eastward dispersal of the
religion by Mesopotamian Christians.[43] Monasteries were constructed and
further settlements were founded during this era.[44][45] During the latter
part of the Christian era, Qatar comprised a region known as 'Beth Qatraye'
(Syriac for "house of the Qataris").[46] The region was not limited to Qatar;
it also included Bahrain, Tarout Island, Al-Khatt, and Al-Hasa.[47]

In 628, Muhammad sent a Muslim envoy to a ruler in Eastern Arabia named Munzir
ibn Sawa Al Tamimi and requested that he and his subjects accept Islam. Munzir
obliged his request, and accordingly, most of the Arab tribes in the region
converted to Islam.[48][ _better  source needed_] After the adoption of Islam,
the Arabs[ _which?_ ] led the Muslim conquest of Persia which resulted in the
fall of the Sasanian Empire.[49]

### Early and late Islamic period (661–1783)[edit]

Abbasid Caliphate at its greatest extent, c. 850.

Qatar was described as a famous horse and camel breeding centre during the
Umayyad period.[50] In the 8th century, it started benefiting from its
commercially strategic position in the Persian Gulf and went on to become a
centre of pearl trading.[51][52]

Substantial development in the pearling industry around the Qatari Peninsula
occurred during the Abbasid era.[50] Ships voyaging from Basra to India and
China would make stops in Qatar's ports during this period. Chinese porcelain,
West African coins and artefacts from Thailand have been discovered in
Qatar.[49] Archaeological remains from the 9th century suggest that Qatar's
inhabitants used greater wealth to construct higher quality homes and public
buildings. Over 100 stone-built houses, two mosques, and an Abbasid fort were
constructed in Murwab during this period.[53][54] However, when the
caliphate's prosperity declined in Iraq, so too did it in Qatar.[55] Qatar is
mentioned in 13th-century Muslim scholar Yaqut al-Hamawi's book, _Mu'jam Al-
Buldan_ , which alludes to the Qataris' fine striped woven cloaks and their
skills in improvement and finishing of spears.[56]

Much of Eastern Arabia was controlled by the Usfurids in 1253, but control of
the region was seized by the prince of Ormus in 1320.[57] Qatar's pearls
provided the kingdom with one of its main sources of income.[58] In 1515,
Manuel I of Portugal vassalised the Kingdom of Ormus. Portugal went on to
seize a significant portion of Eastern Arabia in 1521.[58][59] In 1550, the
inhabitants of Al-Hasa voluntarily submitted to the rule of the Ottomans,
preferring them to the Portuguese.[60] Having retained a negligible military
presence in the area, the Ottomans were expelled by the Bani Khalid tribe in
1670.[61]

### Bahraini and Saudi rule (1783–1868)[edit]

A map of East Arabia in 1794.

In 1766, the Utub tribe of Al Khalifa migrated from Kuwait to Zubarah in
Qatar.[62][63] By the time of their arrival, the Bani Khalid exercised weak
authority over the peninsula, not withholding that the largest village was
ruled by a distant kin of the Bani Khalid.[64] In 1783, Qatar-based Bani Utbah
clans and allied Arab tribes invaded and annexed Bahrain from the Persians.
The Al Khalifa imposed their authority over Bahrain and extended their area of
jurisdiction to Qatar.[62]

A partially restored section of the ruined town of Zubarah.

Following the swearing in of Saud ibn Abd al-Aziz as crown prince of the
Wahhabi in 1788, he moved to expand his empire eastward towards the Persian
Gulf and Qatar. After defeating the Bani Khalid in 1795, the Wahhabi were
attacked on two fronts. The Ottomans and Egyptians assaulted the western
front, while the Al Khalifa in Bahrain and the Omanis launched an attack
against the eastern front.[65][66] Upon being made aware of advancements by
the Egyptians on the western frontier in 1811, the Wahhabi amir reduced his
garrisons in Bahrain and Zubarah in order to re-position his troops. Said bin
Sultan of Muscat capitalised on this opportunity and raided the Wahhabi
garrisons on the eastern coast, setting fire to the fort in Zubarah. The Al
Khalifa were effectively returned to power thereafter.[66]

As punishment for piracy, an East India Company vessel bombarded Doha in 1821,
destroying the town and forcing hundreds of residents to flee. In 1825, the
House of Thani was established with Sheikh Mohammed bin Thani as the first
leader.[67]

Although Qatar had the legal status of a dependency, there was a popular
sentiment of resentment against the Al Khalifa. In 1867, the Al Khalifa, along
with the ruler of Abu Dhabi, sent a massive naval force to Al Wakrah in an
effort to crush the Qatari rebels. This resulted in the maritime
Qatari–Bahraini War of 1867–1868, in which Bahraini and Abu Dhabi forces
sacked and looted Doha and Al Wakrah.[68] However, the Bahraini hostilities
were in violation of the 1820 Anglo-Bahraini Treaty. The joint incursion, in
addition to the Qatari counterattack, prompted British political agent Lewis
Pelly to impose a settlement in 1868. His mission to Bahrain and Qatar and the
resulting peace treaty were milestones because they implicitly recognised the
distinctness of Qatar from Bahrain and explicitly acknowledged the position of
Mohammed bin Thani. In addition to censuring Bahrain for its breach of
agreement, the British protectorate asked to negotiate with a representative
from Qatar, a role which Mohammed bin Thani was selected to fulfil. The
results of the negotiations left the nation with a new-found sense of
political identity, although it did not gain an official standing as a
protectorate until 1916.

### Ottoman rule (1871–1915)[edit]

Qatar in an 1891 Adolf Stieler map

Old city of Doha, January 1904.

Under military and political pressure from the governor of the Ottoman Vilayet
of Baghdad, Midhat Pasha, the ruling Al Thani tribe submitted to Ottoman rule
in 1871.[69] The Ottoman government imposed reformist (Tanzimat) measures
concerning taxation and land registration to fully integrate these areas into
the empire.[69] Despite the disapproval of local tribes, Al Thani continued
supporting Ottoman rule. However, Qatari-Ottoman relations soon stagnated, and
in 1882 they suffered further setbacks when the Ottomans refused to aid Al
Thani in his expedition of Abu Dhabi-occupied Al Khor. In addition, the
Ottomans supported the Ottoman subject Mohammed bin Abdul Wahab who attempted
to supplant Al Thani as kaymakam of Qatar in 1888.[70] This eventually led Al
Thani to rebel against the Ottomans, whom he believed were seeking to usurp
control of the peninsula. He resigned as kaymakam and stopped paying taxes in
August 1892.[71]

In February 1893, Mehmed Hafiz Pasha arrived in Qatar in the interests of
seeking unpaid taxes and accosting Jassim bin Mohammed's opposition to
proposed Ottoman administrative reforms. Fearing that he would face death or
imprisonment, Jassim retreated to Al Wajbah (10 miles west of Doha),
accompanied by several tribe members. Mehmed's demand that Jassim disband his
troops and pledge his loyalty to the Ottomans was met with refusal. In March,
Mehmed imprisoned Jassim's brother and 13 prominent Qatari tribal leaders on
the Ottoman corvette _Merrikh_ as punishment for his insubordination. After
Mehmed declined an offer to release the captives for a fee of 10,000 liras, he
ordered a column of approximately 200 troops to advance towards Jassim's Al
Wajbah Fort under the command of Yusuf Effendi, thus signalling the start of
the Battle of Al Wajbah.[49]

Effendi's troops came under heavy gunfire by a sizable troop of Qatari
infantry and cavalry shortly after arriving to Al Wajbah. They retreated to
Shebaka fortress, where they were again forced to draw back from a Qatari
incursion. After they withdrew to Al Bidda fortress, Jassim's advancing column
besieged the fortress, resulting in the Ottomans' concession of defeat and
agreement to relinquish their captives in return for the safe passage of
Mehmed Pasha's cavalry to Hofuf by land.[72] Although Qatar did not gain full
independence from the Ottoman Empire, the result of the battle forced a treaty
that would later form the basis of Qatar's emerging as an autonomous country
within the empire.[73]

### British rule (1916–1971)[edit]

Zubarah Fort built in 1938.

The Ottoman Empire fell into disorder after losing battles in different fronts
in the Middle Eastern theatre of World War I. Qatar took part in the Arab
revolt against the Ottomans. The revolt was successful and Ottoman rule in the
country further declined. The United Kingdom and the Ottoman Empire accorded
their recognition to Sheikh Abdullah bin Jassim Al Thani and his successors'
right to rule over the whole of the Qatari Peninsula. The Ottomans renounced
all their rights to Qatar and, following the outbreak of the First World War,
Abdullah bin Jassim Al Thani (who was pro-British) forced them to abandon Doha
in 1915.[74]

As a result of the partitioning of the Ottoman Empire, Qatar became a British
protectorate on 3 November 1916. On that day, the United Kingdom signed a
treaty with Sheikh Abdullah bin Jassim Al Thani to bring Qatar under its
Trucial System of Administration. While Abdullah agreed not to enter into any
relations with any other power without prior consent of the British
government, the British guaranteed the protection of Qatar from all aggression
by sea.[74] On 5 May 1935, Abdullah signed another treaty with the British
government which granted Qatar protection against internal and external
threats.[74] Oil reserves were first discovered in 1939. However, exploitation
was delayed by World War II.

The influence of the British Empire started diminishing after World War II,
particularly after the Independence of India and Pakistan in 1947. In the
1950s, oil began replacing pearling and fishing as Qatar's main sources of
revenue. Oil earnings began to fund the expansion and modernisation of Qatar's
infrastructure. Pressure for a British withdrawal from the Arab emirates in
the Persian Gulf increased during the 1950s. When Britain officially announced
in 1968 that it would politically disengage from the Persian Gulf in three
years' time, Qatar joined Bahrain and seven other Trucial States in a
federation. Regional disputes, however, quickly compelled Qatar to resign and
declare independence from the coalition which would eventually evolve into the
United Arab Emirates.

### Independence and aftermath (1971–present)[edit]

Traditional dhows in front of the West Bay skyline as seen from the Doha
Corniche.

The State of Qatar entered into a general maritime truce with the United
Kingdom in 1968. A General Treaty was concluded between the two on 3 November
1916. The General Treaty reserved foreign affairs and defence to the United
Kingdom but allowed internal autonomy. On 3 September 1971, those "special
treaty arrangements" that were "inconsistent with full international
responsibility as a sovereign and independent state" were terminated.[75] This
was done under an agreement reached between the Ruler of Qatar and the
Government of the United Kingdom.[76][75]

In 1991, Qatar played a significant role in the Gulf War, particularly during
the Battle of Khafji in which Qatari tanks rolled through the streets of the
town and provided fire support for Saudi Arabian National Guard units that
were engaging Iraqi Army troops. Qatar allowed coalition troops from Canada to
use the country as an airbase to launch aircraft on CAP duty and also
permitted air forces from the United States and France to operate in its
territories.[35]

In 1995, Emir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani seized control of the country from
his father Khalifa bin Hamad Al Thani, with the support of the armed forces
and cabinet, as well as neighbouring states[77] and France.[78] Under Emir
Hamad, Qatar has experienced a moderate degree of liberalisation, including
the launch of the Al Jazeera television station (1996), the endorsement of
women's suffrage or right to vote in municipal elections (1999), drafting its
first written constitution (2005) and inauguration of a Roman Catholic church
(2008). In 2010, Qatar won the rights to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup, making
it the first country in the Middle East to be selected to host the tournament.
The Emir announced Qatar's plans to hold its first national legislative
elections in 2013. They were scheduled to be held in the second half of 2013,
but were postponed in June 2013 and may be delayed until 2019.

In 2003, Qatar served as the US Central Command headquarters and one of the
main launching sites of the invasion of Iraq.[79] In March 2005, a suicide
bombing killed a British teacher at the Doha Players Theatre, shocking the
country, which had not previously experienced acts of terrorism. The bombing
was carried out by Omar Ahmed Abdullah Ali, an Egyptian resident in Qatar who
had suspected ties to Al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula.[80][81] In 2011,
Qatar joined NATO operations in Libya and reportedly armed Libyan opposition
groups.[82] It is also currently a major funder of weapons for rebel groups in
the Syrian civil war.[83] Qatar is pursuing an Afghan peace deal and in
January 2012 the Afghan Taliban said they were setting up a political office
in Qatar to facilitate talks. This was done in order to facilitate peace
negotiations and with the support of other countries including the United
States and Afghanistan. Ahmed Rashid, writing in the Financial Times, stated
that through the office Qatar has "facilitated meetings between the Taliban
and many countries and organisations, including the US state department, the
UN, Japan, several European governments and non-governmental organisations,
all of whom have been trying to push forward the idea of peace talks.
Suggestions in September 2017 by the presidents of both the United States and
Afghanistan have reportedly lead to protests from senior officials of the
American State Department.[84]

In June 2013, Sheikh Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani became the Emir of Qatar after
his father handed over power in a televised speech.[85] Sheikh Tamim has
prioritised improving the domestic welfare of citizens, which includes
establishing advanced healthcare and education systems, and expanding the
country's infrastructure in preparation for the hosting of the 2022 World
Cup.[86]

Qatar participated in the Saudi Arabian-led intervention in Yemen against the
Houthis and forces loyal to former President Ali Abdullah Saleh, who was
deposed in the 2011 Arab Spring uprisings.[87]

In June 2017, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, United Arab Emirates, and Bahrain cut off
diplomatic relations with Qatar, citing the country's alleged support of
groups they considered to be extremist. [88]

## Politics[edit]

Main article: Politics of Qatar

Emir Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani with U.S. President Donald Trump in May 2017

Qatar is either a constitutional[13][14] or an absolute monarchy[16][18] ruled
by the Al Thani family.[89][90] The Al Thani dynasty has been ruling Qatar
since the family house was established in 1825.[8] In 2003, Qatar adopted a
constitution that provided for the direct election of 30 of the 45 members of
the Legislative Council.[8][91][92] The constitution was overwhelmingly
approved in a referendum, with almost 98% in favour.[19][20]

The eighth Emir of Qatar is Tamim bin Hamad Al Thani, whose father Hamad bin
Khalifa Al Thani handed power to him on 25 June 2013.[93] The supreme
chancellor has the exclusive power to appoint and remove the prime minister
and cabinet ministers who, together, constitute the Council of Ministers,
which is the supreme executive authority in the country.[94] The Council of
Ministers also initiates legislation. Laws and decrees proposed by the Council
of Ministers are referred to the Advisory Council (Majilis Al Shura) for
discussion after which they are submitted to the Emir for ratification.[94] A
Consultative Assembly has limited legislative authority to draft and approve
laws, but the Emir has final say on all matters.[8] The current Council is
composed entirely of members appointed by the Emir,[8] as no legislative
elections have been held since 1970 when there were partial elections to the
body.[8] Legislative elections have been postponed until at least 2019.[95]

Qatari law does not permit the establishment of political bodies or trade
unions.[96]

### Sharia law[edit]

See also: Human rights in Qatar

According to Qatar's Constitution, Sharia law is the main source of Qatari
legislation.[97][98] Although in practice, Qatar's legal system is a mixture
of civil law and Sharia law.[99][100] Sharia law is applied to family law,
inheritance, and several criminal acts (including adultery, robbery and
murder). In some cases, Sharia-based family courts treat a female's testimony
as being worth half that of a man.[101] Codified family law was introduced in
2006. Islamic polygyny is permitted.[78]

Judicial corporal punishment is common in Qatar due to the Wahhabi
interpretation of Sharia Law, although in Qatar it had originally been a
Hanbali school of mainstream Sunnism. Flogging is employed as a punishment for
alcohol consumption or illicit sexual relations.[102] Article 88 of Qatar's
criminal code declares that the penalty for adultery is 100 lashes,[103] and
in 2006, a Filipino woman received that punishment.[103] In 2010, at least 18
people (mostly foreign nationals) were sentenced to receive between 40 and 100
lashes for offences involving "illicit sexual relations" or alcohol
consumption.[104] In 2011, at least 21 people (mostly foreign nationals) were
sentenced to between 30 and 100 lashes for the same reasons,[105] and in 2012,
six expatriates were sentenced to either 40 or 100 lashes.[102] Only Muslims
considered medically fit are liable to have such sentences carried out. It is
unknown if the sentences were implemented.[106] In April 2013, a Muslim
expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for alcohol consumption,[107][108][109]
and in June 2014, a Muslim expatriate was sentenced to 40 lashes for consuming
alcohol and driving under the influence.[110] Stoning is a legal punishment in
Qatar,[111] and apostasy and homosexuality are crimes punishable by the death
penalty.[112][113] Blasphemy can result in up to seven years in prison, while
proselytising can incur a 10-year sentence.[112]

Alcohol consumption is partially legal in Qatar; some five-star luxury hotels
are allowed to sell alcohol to their non-Muslim customers.[114][115] Muslims
are not allowed to consume alcohol, and those caught consuming it are liable
to flogging or deportation. Non-Muslim expatriates can obtain a permit to
purchase alcohol for personal consumption. The Qatar Distribution Company (a
subsidiary of Qatar Airways) is permitted to import alcohol and pork; it
operates the one and only liquor store in the country, which also sells pork
to holders of liquor licences.[116][117] Qatari officials have also indicated
a willingness to allow alcohol in "fan zones" at the 2022 FIFA World Cup.[118]

Until 2011, restaurants on the Pearl-Qatar (a man-made island near Doha) were
allowed to serve alcoholic drinks.[114][115] In December 2011, however, Pearl
restaurants were told to stop selling alcohol.[114][119] No explanation was
given for the ban,[114][115] though speculation included encouraging a more
pious image before a significant election and rumours of a financial dispute
between the government and resort developers.[119] The alcohol ban was later
lifted.[120]

In 2014, a modesty campaign was launched to remind tourists of the country's
restrictive dress code.[121] Female tourists were advised not to wear
leggings, miniskirts, sleeveless dresses, or short or tight clothing in
public. Men were warned against wearing only shorts and singlets.[122]

### Human rights[edit]

Main article: Human rights in Qatar

According to the U.S. State Department, expatriate workers from nations
throughout Asia and parts of Africa voluntarily migrate to Qatar as low-
skilled labourers or domestic servants, but some subsequently face conditions
indicative of involuntary servitude. Some of the more common labour rights
violations include beatings, withholding of payment, charging workers for
benefits for which the employer is responsible, restrictions on freedom of
movement (such as the confiscation of passports, travel documents, or exit
permits), arbitrary detention, threats of legal action, and sexual
assault.[123] Many migrant workers arriving for work in Qatar have paid
exorbitant fees to recruiters in their home countries.[123]

As of 2014[update], certain provisions of the Qatari Criminal Code allows
punishments such as flogging and stoning to be imposed as criminal sanctions.
The UN Committee Against Torture found that these practices constituted a
breach of the obligations imposed by the UN Convention Against
Torture.[124][125] Qatar retains the death penalty, mainly for threats against
national security such as terrorism. Use of the death penalty is rare and no
state executions have taken place in Qatar since 2003.[126] In Qatar,
homosexual acts are illegal and can be punished by death.[127]

Under the provisions of Qatar's sponsorship law, sponsors have the unilateral
power to cancel workers' residency permits, deny workers' ability to change
employers, report a worker as "absconded" to police authorities, and deny
permission to leave the country.[123] As a result, sponsors may restrict
workers' movements and workers may be afraid to report abuses or claim their
rights.[123] According to the ITUC, the visa sponsorship system allows the
exaction of forced labour by making it difficult for a migrant worker to leave
an abusive employer or travel overseas without permission.[128] Qatar also
does not maintain wage standards for its immigrant labourers. Qatar
commissioned international law firm DLA Piper to produce a report
investigating the immigrant labour system. In May 2014 DLA Piper released over
60 recommendations for reforming the kafala system including the abolition of
exit visas and the introduction of a minimum wage which Qatar has pledged to
implement.[129]

In May 2012, Qatari officials declared their intention to allow the
establishment of an independent trade union.[130] Qatar also announced it will
scrap its sponsor system for foreign labour, which requires that all foreign
workers be sponsored by local employers.[130] Additional changes to labour
laws include a provision guaranteeing that all workers' salaries are paid
directly into their bank accounts and new restrictions on working outdoors in
the hottest hours during the summer.[131] New draft legislation announced in
early 2015 mandates that companies that fail to pay workers' wages on time
could temporarily lose their ability to hire more employees.[132]

In October 2015 Qatar's Emir signed into law new reforms to the country's
sponsorship system, with the new law taking effect within one year.[133]
Critics claim that the changes could fail to address some labour rights
issues.[134][135][136]

The country enfranchised women at the same time as men in connection with the
1999 elections for a Central Municipal Council.[91][137] These elections—the
first ever in Qatar—were deliberately held on 8 March 1999, International
Women's Day.[91]

### Foreign relations[edit]

Main article: Foreign relations of Qatar

Former Emir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani and U.S. Secretary of State John Kerry
in 2013.

As a small country with larger neighbours, Qatar seeks to project influence
and protect its state and ruling dynasty.[138] The history of Qatar's
alliances provides insight into the basis of their policy. Between 1760 and
1971, Qatar sought formal protection from the high transitory powers of the
Ottomans, British, the Al-Khalifas from Bahrain, the Arabians, and the
Wahhabis from Saudi Arabia.[139][ _page  needed_] Qatar's rising international
profile and active role in international affairs has led some analysts to
identify it as a middle power. Qatar was an early member of OPEC and a
founding member of the Gulf Cooperation Council (GCC). It is a member of the
Arab League. The country has not accepted compulsory International Court of
Justice jurisdiction.[8]

Embassy of Qatar in Washington, D.C.

Qatar also has bilateral relationships with a variety of foreign powers. Qatar
hosts the Al Udeid Air Base, a joint U.S.-British base, which acts as the hub
for all American and British air operations in the Persian Gulf.[140] It has
allowed American and British forces to use an air base to send supplies to
Iraq and Afghanistan.[141] According to leaked documents published in _The New
York Times_ , Qatar's record of counter-terrorism efforts was the "worst in
the region".[142] The cable suggested that Qatar's security service was
"hesitant to act against known terrorists out of concern for appearing to be
aligned with the U.S. and provoking reprisals".[142]

Qatar has mixed relations with its neighbours in the Persian Gulf region.
Qatar signed a defence co-operation agreement with Iran,[143] with whom it
shares the largest single non-associated gas field in the world. It was the
second nation, the first being France, to have publicly announced its
recognition of the Libyan opposition's National Transitional Council as the
legitimate government of Libya amidst the 2011 Libyan civil war.[144]

In 2014, Qatar's relations with Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, and the United Arab
Emirates came to a boiling point over Qatar's support for the Muslim
Brotherhood[77] and extremist groups in Syria.[145] This culminated in the
three aforementioned countries withdrawing their ambassadors from Qatar in
March 2014.[146]

Qatar's flag in Libya after the Libyan Civil War; Qatar played an influential
role during the Arab Spring.

In recent years, Qatar has been using Islamist militants in a number of
countries including Egypt, Syria, Libya, Somalia and Mali to further its
foreign policy. Courting Islamists from the Muslim Brotherhood to Salafist
groups has served as a power amplifier for the country, as it believes since
the beginning of the Arab Spring that these groups represented the wave of the
future.[142][138][147] David Cohen, the Under Secretary for terrorism and
financial intelligence at the U.S. Treasury, said that Qatar is a "permissive
jurisdiction for terrorist financing."[148] There is evidence that these
groups supported by Qatar include the hard-line Islamic militant groups active
in northern Syria.[142] As of 2015[update], Qatar, Saudi Arabia and Turkey are
openly backing the Army of Conquest,[149][150] an umbrella group of anti-
government forces fighting in the Syrian Civil War that reportedly includes an
al-Qaeda linked al-Nusra Front and another Salafi coalition known as Ahrar
ash-Sham.[148][151]

Qatar supported the democratically elected President Mohamed Morsi with
diplomatic support and the state-owned Al Jazeera network before he was
deposed in a military coup.[152][153] Qatar offered Egypt a $7.5 billion loan
during the year he was in power.[154]

Qatar's alignment with Hamas, first reported in early 2012,[155] has drawn
criticism from Israel, the United States, Egypt and Saudi Arabia, "who accuse
Qatar of undermining regional stability by supporting Hamas."[156] However,
the Foreign Minister of Qatar has denied supporting Hamas and corrected their
alleged claims, stating "We do not support Hamas but we support the
Palestinians."[157] Following a peace agreement, Qatar pledged $1 billion in
humanitarian aid to Gaza.[158]

Qatar has hosted academic, religious, political, and economic conferences. The
11th annual Doha Forum recently brought in key thinkers, professionals of
various backgrounds, and political figures from all over the world to discuss
democracy, media and information technology, free trade, and water security
issues. In addition, the forum has featured the Middle East Economic Future
conference since 2006.[159] In more recent times, Qatar has hosted peace talks
between rival factions across the globe. Notable among these include the
Darfur Agreement. The Doha Declaration is the basis of the peace process in
Darfur and it has achieved significant gains on the ground for the African
region. Notable achievements included the restoration of security and
stability, progress made in construction and reconstruction processes, return
of displaced residents and uniting of Darfur people to face challenges and
push forward the peace process.[160] Qatar donated £88.5million in funds to
finance recovery and reconstruction in Darfur.[161]

In June 2017, Saudi Arabia, the UAE, Bahrain, Egypt and Yemen broke diplomatic
ties with Qatar, accusing Qatar of supporting terrorism,[162] escalating a
dispute over Qatar’s support of the Muslim Brotherhood, considered a terrorist
organization by those 5 Arab nations.[163] Saudi Arabia explained the move to
be a necessary measure in protecting the kingdom's security. Qatari troops
were also removed from the military coalition in Yemen. Egypt closed its
airspace and seaports to all Qatari transportation.[163][164]

### Military[edit]

Main article: Qatar Armed Forces

A Qatar Dassault Mirage 2000 flying over Libya

The US Combined Air Operations Center at Al Udeid Air Base in Qatar

The Qatar Armed Forces are the military forces of Qatar. The country maintains
a modest military force of approximately 11,800 men, including an army
(8,500), navy (1,800) and air force (1,500). Qatar's defense expenditures
accounted for approximately 4.2% of gross national product in 1993, and 1.5%
of gross domestic product in 2010, the most recent year available in the SIPRI
statistical database.[165] Qatar has recently signed defense pacts with the
United States and United Kingdom, as well as with France earlier in 1994.
Qatar plays an active role in the collective defense efforts of the Gulf
Cooperation Council; the other five members are Saudi Arabia, Kuwait, Bahrain,
the UAE, and Oman. The presence of the large Al Udeid Air Base, operated by
the United States and several other UN nations, provides a guaranteed source
of defense and national security. In 2008 Qatar spent US$2.355 billion on
military expenditures, 2.3% of the gross domestic product.[166] Qatari special
forces have been trained by France and other Western countries, and are
believed to possess considerable skill.[167] They also helped the Libyan
rebels during the 2011 Battle of Tripoli.[167]

The Stockholm International Peace Research Institute (SIPRI) found that in
2010–14 Qatar was the 46th-largest arms importer in the world. However, SIPRI
writes, Qatar's plans to transform and significantly enlarge its armed forces
have accelerated. Orders in 2013 for 62 tanks and 24 self-propelled guns from
Germany were followed in 2014 by a number of other contracts, including 24
combat helicopters and 3 early-warning-and-control aircraft from the USA, and
2 tanker aircraft from Spain.[168] In 2015, Qatar was the 16th largest arms
importer in the world, and in 2016, it was the 11th largest, according to
SIPRI.[169]

Qatar's military participated in the Saudi Arabian–led intervention in Yemen
against the Shia Houthis. In 2015, _Al Jazeera America_ reported: "Numerous
reports suggest that the Saudi-led coalition against opposition groups in
Yemen has indiscriminately attacked civilians and used cluster bombs in
civilian-populated areas, in violation of international law."[170] Many
civilians have been killed and the large parts of the infrastructure in this
region is now destroyed.[171] Hospitals have also been bombed by the Saudis
and those operating with them.[172][173]

##  Administrative divisions[edit]

Main article: Municipalities of Qatar

Municipalities of Qatar in 2004

Since 2015, Qatar has been divided into eight municipalities (Arabic:
baladiyah).[174]

  1. Al Shamal
  2. Al Khor
  3. Umm Salal
  4. Al Daayen
  5. Al Rayyan
  6. Doha
  7. Al Wakrah
  8. Al-Shahaniya

For statistical purposes, the municipalities are further subdivided into 98
zones (as of 2015[update]),[175] which are in turn subdivided into
blocks.[176]

## Geography[edit]

Main article: Geography of Qatar

Desert coast

Desert landscape in Qatar

The Qatari peninsula protrudes 160 kilometres (100 mi) into the Persian Gulf,
north of Saudi Arabia. It lies between latitudes 24° and 27° N, and longitudes
50° and 52° E. Most of the country consists of a low, barren plain, covered
with sand. To the southeast lies the _Khor al Adaid_ ("Inland Sea"), an area
of rolling sand dunes surrounding an inlet of the Persian Gulf. There are mild
winters and very hot, humid summers.

The highest point in Qatar is Qurayn Abu al Bawl at 103 metres (338 ft)[8] in
the Jebel Dukhan to the west, a range of low limestone outcroppings running
north-south from Zikrit through Umm Bab to the southern border. The Jebel
Dukhan area also contains Qatar's main onshore oil deposits, while the natural
gas fields lie offshore, to the northwest of the peninsula.

### Biodiversity and environment[edit]

See also: Wildlife of Qatar

Arabian oryx, the national animal of Qatar

Ostriches in Qatar

Qatar signed the Rio Convention on Biological Diversity on 11 June 1992, and
became a party to the convention on 21 August 1996.[177] It has subsequently
produced a National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan, which was received
by the convention on 18 May 2005.[178] A total of 142 fungal species have been
recorded from Qatar.[179] A book recently produced by the Ministry of
Environment documents the lizards known or believed to occur in Qatar, based
on surveys conducted by an international team of scientists and other
collaborators.[180]

For two decades, Qatar has had the highest per-capita carbon dioxide emissions
in the world, at 49.1 metric tons per person in 2008.[181] Qataris are also
some of the highest consumers of water per capita per day, using around 400
litres.[182]

In 2008 Qatar launched its National Vision 2030 which highlights environmental
development as one of the four main goals for Qatar over the next two decades.
The National Vision pledges to develop sustainable alternatives to oil-based
energy to preserve the local and global environment.[183]

### Climate[edit]

Climate data for Qatar  
---  
Month | Jan | Feb | Mar | Apr | May | Jun | Jul | Aug | Sep | Oct | Nov | Dec
| Year  
Average high °C (°F) | 22  
(72) | 23  
(73) | 27  
(81) | 33  
(91) | 39  
(102) | 42  
(108) | 42  
(108) | 42  
(108) | 39  
(102) | 35  
(95) | 30  
(86) | 25  
(77) | 33.3  
(91.9)  
Average low °C (°F) | 14  
(57) | 15  
(59) | 17  
(63) | 21  
(70) | 27  
(81) | 29  
(84) | 31  
(88) | 31  
(88) | 29  
(84) | 25  
(77) | 21  
(70) | 16  
(61) | 23  
(73.5)  
Average precipitation mm (inches) | 12.7  
(0.5) | 17.8  
(0.701) | 15.2  
(0.598) | 7.6  
(0.299) | 2.5  
(0.098) | 0  
(0) | 0  
(0) | 0  
(0) | 0  
(0) | 0  
(0) | 2.5  
(0.098) | 12.7  
(0.5) | 71  
(2.794)  
Source: http://us.worldweatheronline.com/doha-weather-averages/ad-
dawhah/qa.aspx  
  
## Economy[edit]

Main article: Economy of Qatar

Graphical depiction of Qatar's product exports in 28 color-coded categories
(2011).

Commercial district in Doha.

Before the discovery of oil, the economy of the Qatari region focused on
fishing and pearl hunting. Report prepared by local governors of Ottoman
Empire in 1892 states that total income from pearl hunting in 1892 is
2,450,000 kran.[68] After the introduction of the Japanese cultured pearl onto
the world market in the 1920s and 1930s, Qatar's pearling industry crashed.
Oil was discovered in Qatar in 1940, in Dukhan Field.[184] The discovery
transformed the state's economy. Now, the country has a high standard of
living for its legal citizens. With no income tax, Qatar (along with Bahrain)
is one of the countries with the lowest tax rates in the world. The
unemployment rate in June 2013 was 0.1%.[185] Corporate law mandates that
Qatari nationals must hold 51% of any venture in the Emirate.[78]

As of 2016[update], Qatar has the fourth highest GDP per capita in the world,
according to the International Monetary Fund.[4] It relies heavily on foreign
labor to grow its economy, to the extent that migrant workers compose 86% of
the population and 94% of the workforce.[186][187] Qatar has been criticized
by the International Trade Union Confederation.[188] The economic growth of
Qatar has been almost exclusively based on its petroleum and natural gas
industries, which began in 1940.[189] Qatar is the leading exporter of
liquefied natural gas.[167] In 2012, it was estimated that Qatar would invest
over $120 billion in the energy sector in the next ten years.[190] The country
is a member state of Organization of Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC),
having joined in 1961.[191]

Qatar Airways Airbus A380, Qatar Airways, one of the world's largest airlines,
links over 150 international destinations from its base in Doha.

High-rise buildings in Doha.

In 2012, Qatar retained its title of richest country in the world (according
to per capita income) for the third time in a row, having first overtaken
Luxembourg in 2010. According to the study published by the Washington based
Institute of International Finance, Qatar's per capita GDP at purchasing power
parity (PPP) was $106,000 (QR387,000) in 2012, helping the country retain its
ranking as the world's wealthiest nation. Luxembourg came a distant second
with nearly $80,000 and Singapore third with per capita income of about
$61,000. The research put Qatar's GDP at $182bn in 2012 and said it had
climbed to an all-time high due to soaring gas exports and high oil prices.
Its population stood at 1.8 million in 2012. The same study published that
Qatar Investment Authority (QIA), with assets of $115bn, was ranked 12th among
the richest sovereign wealth funds in the world.[192]

Qatar Central Bank's office in Doha.

Established in 2005, Qatar Investment Authority is the country's sovereign
wealth fund, specializing in foreign investment.[193] Due to billions of
dollars in surpluses from the oil and gas industry, the Qatari government has
directed investments into United States, Europe, and Asia Pacific. As of
2013[update], the holdings were valued at $100 billion in assets. Qatar
Holding is the international investment arm of QIA. Since 2009, Qatar Holding
has received $30–40bn a year from the state. As of 2014[update], it has
investments around the world in Valentino, Siemens, Printemps, Harrods, The
Shard, Barclays Bank, Heathrow Airport, Paris Saint-Germain F.C., Volkswagen
Group, Royal Dutch Shell, Bank of America, Tiffany, Agricultural Bank of
China, Sainsbury's, BlackBerry,[194] and Santander Brasil.[195][196]

The country has no taxes, but authorities have announced plans to levy taxes
on junk food and luxury items. The taxes would be implemented on goods that
harm the human body – for example fast food, tobacco products, and soft
drinks. The roll out of these initial taxes is believed to be due to the fall
in oil prices and a deficit that the country faced in 2016. Additionally, the
country has seen job cuts in 2016 from its petroleum companies and other
sectors in the government.[197][198]

### Energy[edit]

Oryx GTL plant in Qatar

As of 2012[update], Qatar has proven oil reserves of 15 billion barrels and
gas fields that account for more than 13% of the global resource. As a result,
it is the richest state per-capita in the world. None of its 2 million
residents live below the poverty line and less than 1% are unemployed.[199]

Qatar's economy was in a downturn from 1982 to 1989. OPEC quotas on crude oil
production, the lower price for oil, and the generally unpromising outlook on
international markets reduced oil earnings. In turn, the Qatari government's
spending plans had to be cut to match lower income. The resulting recessionary
local business climate caused many firms to lay off expatriate staff. With the
economy recovering in the 1990s, expatriate populations, particularly from
Egypt and South Asia, have grown again.

Oil production will not long remain at peak levels of 500,000 barrels (80,000
m³) per day, as oil fields are projected to be mostly depleted by 2023.
However, large natural gas reserves have been located off Qatar's northeast
coast. Qatar's proved reserves of gas are the third-largest in the world,
exceeding 250 trillion cubic feet (7,000 km³). The economy was boosted in 1991
by completion of the $1.5-billion Phase I of North Field gas development. In
1996, the Qatargas project began exporting liquefied natural gas (LNG) to
Japan. Further phases of North Field gas development costing billions of
dollars are in various stages of planning and development.

Qatar's heavy industrial projects, all based in Umm Said, include a refinery
with a 50,000 barrels (8,000 m³) per day capacity, a fertiliser plant for urea
and ammonia, a steel plant, and a petrochemical plant. All these industries
use gas for fuel. Most are joint ventures between European and Japanese firms
and the state-owned Qatar General Petroleum Corporation (QGPC). The US is the
major equipment supplier for Qatar's oil and gas industry, and US companies
are playing a major role in North Field gas development.[199]

Qatar's National Vision 2030 has made investment in renewable resources a
major goal for the country over the next two decades.[183] Qatar pursues a
vigorous programme of "Qatarisation", under which all joint venture industries
and government departments strive to move Qatari nationals into positions of
greater authority. Growing numbers of foreign-educated Qataris, including many
educated in the US, are returning home to assume key positions formerly
occupied by expatriates. To control the influx of expatriate workers, Qatar
has tightened the administration of its foreign manpower programmes over the
past several years. Security is the principal basis for Qatar's strict entry
and immigration rules and regulations.[199]

## Demographics[edit]

Main article: Demographics of Qatar

Skyline of Doha

The number of people in Qatar fluctuates considerably depending on the season,
since the country relies heavily on migrant labour. In early 2017, Qatar's
total population was 2.6 million, of which 313,000 were Qatari citizens (12%)
and 2.3 million were expatriates.[21] Non-Arab foreigners make up the vast
majority of Qatar's population; Indians are the largest community, numbering
650,000 in 2017,[21] followed by 350,000 Nepalis, 280,000 Bangladeshis,
260,000 Filipinos, 200,000 Egyptians, 145,000 Sri Lankans and 125,000
Pakistanis among many other nationalities.[21]

Qatar's first demographic records date back to 1892, and were conducted by
Ottoman governors in the region. Based on this census, which includes only the
residents in cities, the total population in 1892 was 9,830.[68]

Populations  
---  
Year | Pop. | ±%  
1904 | 27,000 | —  
1970 | 111,133 | +311.6%  
1986 | 369,079 | +232.1%  
1997 | 522,023 | +41.4%  
2004 | 744,029 | +42.5%  
2010 | 1,699,435 | +128.4%  
2013 | 1,903,447 | +12.0%  
2016 | 2,545,000 | +33.7%  
Source: Qatar Statistics Authority (1904–2004);[200] 2010 Census;[2] 2013
est.[201][202] 2016[203]  
  
The 2010 census recorded the total population at 1,699,435.[2] In January
2013, the Qatar Statistics Authority estimated the country's population at
1,903,447, of which 1,405,164 were males and 498,283 females.[201] At the time
of the first census, held in 1970, the population was 111,133.[200] The
population has tripled in the decade to 2011, up from just over 600,000 people
in 2001, leaving Qatari nationals as less than 15% of the total
population.[202] The influx of male labourers has skewed the gender balance,
and women are now just one-quarter of the population.

Projections released by Qatar Statistical Authority indicates that the total
population of Qatar could reach 2.8 million by 2020. Qatar's National
Development Strategy (2011–16) had estimated that the country's population
would reach 1.78m in 2013, 1.81m in 2014, 1.84m in 2015 and 1.86m in 2016 –
the yearly growth rate being merely 2.1%. But the country's population has
soared to 1.83 million by the end of 2012, showing 7.5% growth over the
previous year.[204] Qatar's total population hit a record high of 2.46 million
in November 2015, an increase of 8.5% from the previous year, far exceeding
official projections.[205]

### Religion[edit]

Main article: Religion in Qatar

Mosque in Qatar

Religion in Qatar (2010)[206][207]

  Islam (67.7%)

  Christianity (13.8%)

  Hinduism (13.8%)

  Buddhism (3.1%)

  Others (0.7%)

  Unaffiliated (0.9%)

Islam is Qatar's predominant religion and is the official status although not
the only religion practiced in the country.[208] Most Qatari citizens belong
to the Salafi Muslim movement of Wahhabism,[209][210][211] and between 5–15%
of Muslims in Qatar follow Shia Islam with other Muslims sects being very
small in number.[212] Qatar is 67.7% Muslim, 13.8% Christian, 13.8% Hindu, and
3.1% Buddhist; other religions and religiously unaffiliated people accounted
for the remaining 1.6%.[213] Sharia law is the main source of Qatari
legislation according to Qatar's Constitution.[97][98]

The Christian population is composed almost entirely of foreigners. Since
2008, Christians have been allowed to build churches on ground donated by the
government,[214] though foreign missionary activity is officially
discouraged.[215] Active churches include the Mar Thoma Church, Malankara
Orthodox Syrian Church, the Roman Catholic Church of Our Lady of the Rosary
and the Anglican Church of the Epiphany.[216][217][218] There are also two
Mormon wards.[216][217][218]

### Languages[edit]

Arabic is the official language of Qatar, with Qatari Arabic the local
dialect. Qatari Sign Language is the language of the deaf community. English
is commonly used as a second language,[219] and a rising lingua franca,
especially in commerce, to the extent that steps are being taken to try to
preserve Arabic from English's encroachment.[220] English is particularly
useful for communication with Qatar's large expatriate community. Reflecting
the multicultural make-up of the country, many other languages are also
spoken, including Baluchi, Hindi, Malayalam, Urdu, Pashto, Kannada, Tamil,
Telugu, Nepali, Sinhalese, Bengali, Tagalog, and Bahasa Indonesia.[221]

In 2012, Qatar joined the international French-speaking organisation of La
Francophonie (OIF) as a new associate member. However, in December 2013, the
French daily _Le Monde_ revealed that Qatar, which has very few native French
speakers, had not yet paid any contribution to the OIF,[222] while the
outgoing Administrator of the OIF complained in 2015 that Qatar had not kept
any of the promises it made when it joined the organisation and had never paid
its annual membership fees.[223]

##  Culture[edit]

Main article: Culture of Qatar

Qatar's culture is similar to other countries in Eastern Arabia, being
significantly influenced by Islam. Qatar National Day, hosted annually on 18
December, has had an important role in developing a sense of national
identity.[224] It is observed in remembrance of Jassim bin Mohammed Al Thani's
succession to the throne and his subsequent unification of the country's
various tribes.[225][226] Since 1 July 2008, Hamad Bin Abdulaziz Al-Kawari has
been the Minister for Culture, Arts and Heritage of Qatar.

### Arts and museums[edit]

Main articles: Qatar Museums Authority, Collecting practices of the Al-Thani
Family, and Qatari art

Museum of Islamic Art, Doha

Several senior members of Qatar's ruling Al Thani family are noted collectors
of Islamic and contemporary art.

The Museum of Islamic Art, opened in 2008, is regarded as one of the best
museums in the region.[227] This, and several other Qatari museums, like the
Arab Museum of Modern Art, falls under the Qatar Museums Authority ( _QMA_ )
which is led by Sheikha Al-Mayassa bint Hamad bin Khalifa Al-Thani, the sister
of the ruling Emir of the State of Qatar, and the prominent collector and art
patron Sheikh Hassan bin Mohammed Al Thani.[228] The QMA also sponsors
artistic events abroad, such as major exhibitions by Takahashi Murakami in
Versailles (2010) and Damien Hirst in London (2012).

Qatar is the world's biggest buyer in the art market by value.[229] The Qatari
cultural sector is being developed to enable the country to reach world
recognition to contribute to the development of a country that comes mainly
from its resources from the gas industry.[230]

### Media[edit]

Main article: Media of Qatar

The news desk of Al Jazeera English, a Qatari news channel

Qatar's media was classified as "not free" in the 2014 Freedom of the Press
report by Freedom House.[231] TV broadcasting in Qatar was started in
1970.[232] Al Jazeera is a main television network headquartered in Doha,
Qatar. Al Jazeera initially launched in 1996 as an Arabic news and current
affairs satellite TV channel of the same name, but has since expanded into a
global network of several speciality TV channels known collectively as the Al
Jazeera Media Network.

It has been reported that journalists practice self-censorship, particularly
in regards to the government and ruling family of Qatar.[233] Criticism of the
government, Emir and ruling family in the media is illegal. According to
article 46 of the press law "The Emir of the state of Qatar shall not be
criticised and no statement can be attributed to him unless under a written
permission from the manager of his office."[234] Journalists are also subject
to prosecution for insulting Islam.[231]

In 2014, a Cybercrime Prevention Law was passed. The law is said to restrict
press freedom, and carries prison sentences and fines for broad reasons such
as jeopardising local peace or publishing false news.[235] The Gulf Center for
Human Rights has stated that the law is a threat to freedom of speech and has
called for certain articles of the law to be revoked.[236]

Press media has undergone expansion in recent years. There are currently seven
newspapers in circulation in Qatar, with four being published in Arabic and
three being published in English.[237] There are also newspapers from India,
Nepal and Sri Lanka with editions printed from Qatar.

In regards to telecommunication infrastructure, Qatar is the highest ranked
Middle Eastern country in the World Economic Forum's Network Readiness Index
(NRI) – an indicator for determining the development level of a country's
information and communication technologies. Qatar ranked number 23 overall in
the 2014 NRI ranking, unchanged from 2013.[238]

### Music[edit]

Main article: Music of Qatar

The music of Qatar is based on Bedouin poetry, song and dance. Traditional
dances in Doha are performed on Friday afternoons; one such dance is the
Ardah, a stylised martial dance performed by two rows of dancers who are
accompanied by an array of percussion instruments, including al-ras (a large
drum whose leather is heated by an open fire), tambourines and cymbals with
small drums.[239] Other percussion instruments used in folk music include
_galahs_ (a tall clay jar) and tin drinking cups known as _tus_ or _tasat_ ,
usually used in conjunction with a _tabl_ , a longitudinal drum beaten with a
stick.[240] String instruments, such as the oud and rebaba, are also commonly
used.[239]

### Sport[edit]

Main article: Sport in Qatar

2015 Ladies Tour of Qatar

Association football is the most popular sport in Qatar, both in terms of
players and spectators.[241] The Qatar national under-20 team finished
runners-up to West Germany in the 1981 FIFA World Youth Championship after a
4–0 defeat in the final. In January 2011, the Asian Football Confederation's
fifteenth Asian Cup was held in Qatar. It was the second time Qatar had hosted
the tournament, with the other instance being the 1988 edition.[242]

On 2 December 2010, Qatar won their bid to host the 2022 FIFA World Cup,
despite never previously qualifying for the FIFA World Cup Finals.[243] Local
organisers are planning to build 9 new stadiums and expand 3 existing stadiums
for this event. Qatar's winning bid for the 2022 World Cup was greeted
enthusiastically in the Persian Gulf region as it was the first time a country
in the Middle East had been selected to host the tournament. However, the bid
has been embroiled in much controversy, including allegations of bribery and
interference in the investigation of the alleged bribery. European football
associations have also objected to the 2022 World Cup being held in Qatar for
a variety of reasons, from the impact of warm temperatures on players'
fitness, to the disruption it might cause in European domestic league
calendars should the event be rescheduled to take place during
winter.[244][245] In May 2014, Qatari football official Mohammed bin Hammam
was accused of making payments totalling £3m to officials in return for their
support for the Qatar bid.[246] However, a FIFA inquiry into the bidding
process in November 2014 cleared Qatar of any wrongdoing.[247]

Qatar Emir Cup in 2009

_The Guardian_ , a British national daily newspaper, produced a short
documentary named "Abuse and exploitation of migrant workers preparing emirate
for 2022".[248] A 2014 investigation by The Guardian reports that migrant
workers who have been constructing luxurious offices for the organisers of the
2022 World Cup have not been paid in over a year, and are now "working
illegally from cockroach-infested lodgings."[249] For 2014, Nepalese migrants
involved in constructing infrastructure for the 2022 World Cup died at a rate
of one every two days.[250] The Qatar 2022 organising committee have responded
to various allegations by claiming that hosting the World Cup in Qatar would
act as a "catalyst for change" in the region.[251]

Though football is the most popular sport, other team sports have experienced
considerable success at senior level. In 2015, the national handball team
emerged as runners-up to France in the World Men's Handball Championship as
hosts, however the tournament was marred by numerous controversies regarding
the host nation and its team.[252] Further, in 2014, Qatar won the world
championship in men's 3x3 basketball.[253]

Khalifa International Tennis and Squash Complex in Doha hosted the WTA Tour
Championships in women's tennis between 2008 and 2010. Doha holds the WTA
Premier tournament Qatar Ladies Open annually. Since 2002, Qatar has hosted
the annual Tour of Qatar, a cycling race in six stages. Every February, riders
are racing on the roads across Qatar's flat land for six days. Each stage
covers a distance of more than 100 km, though the time trial usually is a
shorter distance. Tour of Qatar is organised by the Qatar Cycling Federation
for professional riders in the category of Elite Men.[254]

The Qatar Army Skydiving Team has several different skydiving disciplines
placing among the top nations in the world. The Qatar National Parachute team
performs annually during Qatar's National Day and at other large events, such
as the 2015 World Handball Championship.[255] Doha four times was the host of
the official FIVB Volleyball Men's Club World Championship and three times
host FIVB Volleyball Women's Club World Championship. Doha one time Host Asian
Volleyball Championship.[256]

## Education[edit]

Main article: Education in Qatar

UNESCO Institute for Statistics Literacy Rate Qatar population plus 15
1985–2015

Qatar University, main area

Qatar University, east view

Qatar hired the RAND Corporation to reform its K–12 education system.[167]
Through Qatar Foundation, the country has built Education City, a campus which
hosts local branches of the Weill Cornell Medical College, Carnegie Mellon
School of Computer Science, Georgetown University School of Foreign Service,
Northwestern's Medill School of Journalism, Texas A&M's School of Engineering,
and other Western institutions.[167]

The illiteracy rate in Qatar was 3.1% for males and 4.2% for females in 2012,
the lowest in the Arab-speaking world, but 86th in the world.[257] Citizens
are required to attend government-provided education from kindergarten through
high school.[258] Qatar University, founded in 1973, is the country's oldest
and largest institution of higher education.[259][260]

In November 2002, emir Hamad bin Khalifa Al Thani created The Supreme
Education Council.[261] The Council directs and controls education for all
ages from the pre-school level through the university level, including the
"Education for a New Era" initiative which was established to try to position
Qatar as a leader in education reform.[262][263] According to the Webometrics
Ranking of World Universities, the top-ranking universities in the country are
Qatar University (1,881st worldwide), Texas A&M University at Qatar (3,905th)
and Weill Cornell Medical College in Qatar (6,855th).[264]

In 2008, Qatar established the Qatar Science & Technology Park in Education
City to link those universities with industry. Education City is also home to
a fully accredited international Baccalaureate school, Qatar Academy. In
addition, two Canadian institutions, the College of the North Atlantic
(headquarters in Newfoundland and Labrador) and the University of Calgary,
have inaugurated campuses in Doha. Other for-profit universities have also
established campuses in the city.[265] In 2009, under the patronage of H.H.
Sheikha Mozah Al Missned, the World Innovation Summit for Education (WISE) was
established with the aim of transforming education through innovation.

In 2012, Qatar was ranked third from the bottom of the 65 OECD countries
participating in the PISA test of maths, reading and skills for 15- and 16
-year-olds, comparable to Colombia or Albania, despite having the highest per
capita income in the world.[266][267] As part of its national development
strategy, Qatar has outlined a 10-year strategic plan to improve the level of
education.[268] Furthermore, the government has launched educational outreach
programs, such as Al-Bairaq. Al-Bairaq was launched in 2010 aims to provide
high school students with an opportunity to experience a research environment
in the Center for Advanced Materials in Qatar University. The program
encompasses the STEM fields and languages.[269]

## Healthcare[edit]

Main article: Healthcare in Qatar

## See also[edit]

  * List of Qatar-related topics
  * Outline of Qatar
  * Qatar's Kafala system—laws regarding foreign workers in Qatar
  * Qatari cuisine
  * Amnesty International 2016/17 report on Qatari Human Rights

  * Arab world portal
  * Asia portal
  * Middle East portal

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Population structure". Ministry of Development Planning and Statistics. 31 January 2017.  
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Populations". Qsa.gov.qa. Archived from the original on 9 July 2010. Retrieved  2 October 2010. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Report for qatar (PPP valuation of country GDP)". IMF. October 2016.  
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Report for Selected Countries and Subjects (PPP valuation of country GDP)". IMF. October 2016.  
  5. **^** "GINI index". World Bank. Retrieved  22 January 2013. 
  6. **^** "2015 Human Development Report" (PDF). United Nations Development Programme. 2015. Retrieved 14 December 2015. 
  7. **^** "List of left- & right-driving countries – World Standards". Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ "Qatar". _CIA World Factbook_. Central Intelligence Agency. 8 February 2012. Retrieved  4 March 2012. 
  9. **^** Pronunciation adopted by Qatar Airways' advertisements, such as _Qatar Airways: the Art of Flight Redefined_
  10. **^** "CMU Pronouncing Dictionary". CS. Retrieved  28 March 2010. 
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Johnstone, T. M. (2008). "Encyclopaedia of Islam". _Ķaṭar_. Brill Online. Retrieved  22 January 2013.  (subscription required)
  12. **^** "How do you say 'Qatar'? Senate hearing has the answer". Washington Post. 12 June 2014. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  13. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ BBC News, _How democratic is the Middle East?_, 9 September 2005.
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ United States Department of State Country Reports on Human Rights Practices for 2011: Qatar, 2011.
  15. **^** "US State Dept's Country Political Profile – Qatar" (PDF). 
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gardener, David. "Qatar shows how to manage a modern monarchy". Financial Times. 
  17. **^** "The World Factbook". CIA Factbook.  
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Canada – Qatar Bilateral Relations". Government of Canada.  
  19. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "IFES Election Guide – Elections: Qatar Referendum Apr 29 2003". _www.electionguide.org_. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Qatar 2003". _www.princeton.edu_. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  21. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Population of Qatar by nationality – 2017 report". Retrieved  7 February 2017. 
  22. **^** "Indices & Data | Human Development Reports". United Nations Development Programme. 14 March 2013. Archived from the original on 12 January 2013. Retrieved  27 June 2013. 
  23. **^** "Qatar human development".  
  24. **^** Dagher, Sam (17 October 2011). "Tiny Kingdom's Huge Role in Libya Draws Concern". Online.wsj.com. Retrieved 30 December 2013. 
  25. **^** "Qatar: Rise of an Underdog". Politicsandpolicy.org. Retrieved  30 December 2013. 
  26. **^** Ian Black in Tripoli. "Qatar admits sending hundreds of troops to support Libya rebels". Theguardian.com. Retrieved 30 December 2013. 
  27. **^** Cooper, Andrew F. "Middle Powers: Squeezed out or Adaptive?". Public Diplomacy Magazine. Retrieved 12 March 2015. 
  28. **^** Kamrava, Mehran. "Mediation and Qatari Foreign Policy" (PDF). Retrieved 12 March 2015. 
  29. **^** Paul Rhys in Doha. "Blatter reaches out to Arabia". Aljazeera.com. Retrieved 30 December 2013. 
  30. **^** Casey, Paula; Vine, Peter (1992). _The heritage of Qatar_. Immel Publishing. p.  17. 
  31. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "History of Qatar". Qatar Statistics Authority. Retrieved  11 May 2015. 
  32. **^** "Maps". Qatar National Library. Retrieved  11 May 2015. 
  33. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "About us". Katara. Archived from the original on 22 July 2015. Retrieved  11 May 2015. 
  34. **^** Hazlitt, William (1851). _The Classical Gazetteer: A Dictionary of Ancient Geography, Sacred and Profane_. Whittaker & co.  
  35. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Toth, Anthony. "Qatar: Historical Background." _A Country Study: Qatar_ (Helen Chapin Metz, editor). Library of Congress Federal Research Division (January 1993). _This article incorporates text from this source, which is in thepublic domain_.
  36. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Khalifa, Haya; Rice, Michael (1986). _Bahrain Through the Ages: The Archaeology_. Routledge. pp. 79, 215. ISBN 978-0710301123.  
  37. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "History of Qatar" (PDF). _www.qatarembassy.or.th_. Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Qatar. London: Stacey International, 2000. Retrieved  9 January 2015. 
  38. **^** Rice, Michael (1994). _Archaeology of the Persian Gulf_. Routledge. pp. 206, 232–233. ISBN 978-0415032681.  
  39. **^** Magee, Peter (2014). _The Archaeology of Prehistoric Arabia_. Cambridge Press. pp. 50, 178. ISBN 9780521862318.  
  40. **^** Sterman, Baruch (2012). _Rarest Blue: The Remarkable Story Of An Ancient Color Lost To History And Rediscovered_. Lyons Press. pp. 21–22. ISBN 978-0762782222.  
  41. **^** Cadène, Philippe (2013). _Atlas of the Gulf States_. BRILL. p. 10\. ISBN 978-9004245600.  
  42. **^** "Qatar – Early history". globalsecurity.org. Retrieved  17 January 2015. 
  43. **^** Gillman, Ian; Klimkeit, Hans-Joachim (1999). _Christians in Asia Before 1500_. University of Michigan Press. pp. 87, 121. ISBN 978-0472110407.  
  44. **^** Commins, David (2012). _The Gulf States: A Modern History_. I. B. Tauris. p. 16\. ISBN 978-1848852785.  
  45. **^** Habibur Rahman, p. 33
  46. **^** "AUB academics awarded $850,000 grant for project on the Syriac writers of Qatar in the 7th century AD" (PDF). American University of Beirut. 31 May 2011. Retrieved 12 May 2015. 
  47. **^** Kozah, Mario; Abu-Husayn, Abdulrahim; Al-Murikhi, Saif Shaheen (2014). _The Syriac Writers of Qatar in the Seventh Century_. Gorgias Press LLC. p.  24\. ISBN 978-1463203559. 
  48. **^** "Bahrain". maritimeheritage.org. Retrieved  17 January 2015. 
  49. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Fromherz, Allen (13 April 2012). _Qatar: A Modern History_. Georgetown University Press. pp.  44, 60, 98. ISBN 978-1-58901-910-2. 
  50. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rahman, Habibur (2006). _The Emergence Of Qatar_. Routledge. p.  34\. ISBN 978-0710312136. 
  51. **^** _A political chronology of the Middle East_. Routledge / Europa Publications. 2001. p. 192\. ISBN 978-1857431155.  
  52. **^** Page, Kogan (2004). _Middle East Review 2003–04: The Economic and Business Report_. Kogan Page Ltd. p. 169\. ISBN 978-0749440664.  
  53. **^** _Qatar, 2012 (The Report: Qatar)_. Oxford Business Group. 2012. p. 233\. ISBN 978-1907065682.  
  54. **^** Casey, Paula; Vine, Peter (1992). _The heritage of Qatar_. Immel Publishing. pp.  184–185. 
  55. **^** Russell, Malcolm (2014). _The Middle East and South Asia 2014_. Rowman & Littlefield Publishers. p. 151\. ISBN 978-1475812350.  
  56. **^** "History". qatarembassy.net. Archived from the original on 17 February 2015. Retrieved  18 January 2015. 
  57. **^** Larsen, Curtis (1984). _Life and Land Use on the Bahrain Islands: The Geoarchaeology of an Ancient Society (Prehistoric Archeology and Ecology series)_. University of Chicago Press. p. 54\. ISBN 978-0226469065.  
  58. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Althani, Mohamed (2013). _Jassim the Leader: Founder of Qatar_. Profile Books. p. 16\. ISBN 978-1781250709.  
  59. **^** Gillespie, Carol Ann (2002). _Bahrain (Modern World Nations)_. Chelsea House Publications. p. 31\. ISBN 978-0791067796.  
  60. **^** Anscombe, Frederick (1997). _The Ottoman Gulf: The Creation of Kuwait, Saudia Arabia, and Qatar_. Columbia University Press. p. 12\. ISBN 978-0231108393.  
  61. **^** Potter, Lawrence (2010). _The Persian Gulf in History_. Palgrave Macmillan. p. 262\. ISBN 978-0230612822.  
  62. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Heard-Bey, Frauke (2008). _From Tribe to State. The Transformation of Political Structure in Five States of the GCC_. p. 39\. ISBN 978-88-8311-602-5.  
  63. **^** 'Gazetteer of the Persian Gulf. Vol I. Historical. Part IA & IB. J G Lorimer. 1915' [1000] (1155/1782), p. 1001
  64. **^** Crystal, Jill (1995). _Oil and Politics in the Gulf: Rulers and Merchants in Kuwait and Qatar_. Cambridge University Press. p. 27\. ISBN 978-0521466356.  
  65. **^** Casey, Michael S. (2007). _The History of Kuwait (The Greenwood Histories of the Modern Nations)_. Greenwood. pp. 37–38. ISBN 978-0313340734.  
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ " 'Gazetteer of the Persian Gulf. Vol I. Historical. Part IA & IB. J G Lorimer. 1915' [843] (998/1782)". qdl.qa. Retrieved 13 January 2014. 
  67. **^** "Qatar". Teachmideast.org. Retrieved  27 June 2013. 
  68. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Kursun, Zekeriya (2004). _Katar'da Osmanlilar 1871–1916_. Turk Tarih Kurumu.  
  69. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rogan, Eugene; Murphey, Rhoads; Masalha, Nur; Durac, Vincent; Hinnebusch, Raymond (November 1999). "Review of The Ottoman Gulf: The Creation of Kuwait, Saudi Arabia and Qatar by Frederick F. Anscombe; The Blood-Red Arab Flag: An Investigation into Qasimi Piracy, 1797–1820 by Charles E. Davies; The Politics of Regional Trade in Iraq, Arabia and the Gulf, 1745–1900 by Hala Fattah". _British Journal of Middle Eastern Studies_. **26** (2): 339–342. doi:10.1080/13530199908705688. JSTOR 195948.  
  70. **^** Habibur Rahman, pgs.143–144
  71. **^** Habibur Rahman, pgs.150–151
  72. **^** Habibur Rahman, p. 152
  73. **^** "Battle of Al Wajbah". Qatar Visitor. 2 June 2007. Archived from the original on 17 January 2013. Retrieved  22 January 2013. 
  74. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Amiri Diwan – Shaikh Abdullah Bin Jassim Al Thani". Diwan.gov.qa. Archived from the original on 10 February 2012. Retrieved  28 October 2012. 
  75. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Exchange of Notes constituting an Agreement between the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland and Kuwait regarding relations between the United ... Exchange of Notes concerning the Termination of Special Treaty Relations ... Northern Ireland and the State of Qatar, 3 September 1971
  76. **^** A Treaty of Friendship and an Exchange of Notes, each entered into on 3 September 1971
  77. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "New Qatari emir Sheikh Tamim 'set to announce reshuffle '". BBC News. 26 June 2013. Retrieved 26 June 2013. 
  78. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ nouvelobs.com: "Qatar : "S'ils pouvaient, ils achèteraient la Tour Eiffel", 7 April 2013
  79. **^** "Qatar (01/10)". State.gov. Retrieved  28 March 2010. 
  80. **^** Coman, Julian (21 March 2005). "Egyptian Suicide Bomber Blamed for Attack in Qatar". _The Independent_.  
  81. **^** Analytica, Oxford (25 March 2005). "The Advent of Terrorism in Qatar". _Forbes_.  
  82. **^** "Qatar Timeline". BBC News. 14 June 2012. Retrieved  7 January 2013. 
  83. **^** Roula Khalaf & Abigail Fielding Smith (16 May 2013). "Qatar bankrolls Syrian revolt with cash and arms". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  3 June 2013. 
  84. **^** Ahmed Rashid, Ahmed (4 Oct 2017). "Why closing the Taliban's Qatar office would be an erro". Financial Times. Retrieved 30 October 2017. 
  85. **^** Nordland, Rod (24 June 2013). "In Surprise, Emir of Qatar Plans to Abdicate, Handing Power to Son". _NYTimes.com_. Retrieved  26 June 2013. 
  86. **^** "The World factbook". CIA.Gov. 20 June 2014. Retrieved  20 June 2014. 
  87. **^** "Saudi-led coalition strikes rebels in Yemen, inflaming tensions in region". CNN. 27 March 2015.
  88. **^** "Saudi Arabia and Bahrain break diplomatic ties with Qatar over 'terrorism '". _The Guardian_. The Guardian. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  89. **^** "BBC NEWS – Middle East – How democratic is the Middle East?". _news.bbc.co.uk_. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  90. **^** https://www.state.gov/documents/organization/186656.pdf
  91. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Lambert, Jennifer (2011). "Political Reform in Qatar: Participation, Legitimacy and Security". **19** (1). Middle East Policy Council.  
  92. **^** "Qatar to hold advisory council elections in 2013". _Reuters (UK edition)_. Reuters. 1 November 2011. Retrieved  4 March 2012. 
  93. **^** "Qatari emir Sheikh Hamad hands power to son Tamim". _BBC_. 25 June 2013. Retrieved  25 June 2013. 
  94. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Council of Ministers". Embassy of the State of Qatar in Washington DC. Archived from the original on 12 June 2010. Retrieved  4 March 2012. 
  95. **^** "Legislative elections in Qatar postponed until at least 2019". _Doha News_. 2016-06-17. Retrieved  2017-05-26. 
  96. **^** "The People Want Reform… In Qatar, Too". _Jadaliyya_.  
  97. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Permanent Constitution of the State of Qatar". Government of Qatar. Archived from the original on 6 October 2014.  
  98. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Constitution of Qatar".  According to Article 1: Qatar is an independent Arab country. Islam is its religion and Sharia law is the main source of its legislation. 
  99. **^** "The World Factbook". U.S. Central Intelligence Agency.  
  100. **^** "Qatar" (PDF). US Department of State. 
  101. **^** "Qatar Gender Equality Profile" (PDF). UNICEF. 
  102. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Amnesty International Annual Report 2012 – Qatar". Amnesty International. Retrieved  19 March 2014. 
  103. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Filipino woman gets 100 lashes for giving birth in Qatar".  
  104. **^** "Qatar". Amnesty International.  
  105. **^** "Qatar". Amnesty International.  
  106. **^** "Annual Report". _Amnesty International_. 23 October 2014.  
  107. **^** "Qatar sentences man to 40 lashes for drinking alcohol". Arabian Business.  
  108. **^** "Qatar sentences man to lashes for drinking alcohol". Al Akhbar.  
  109. **^** "Qatar court orders lashing of Muslim barber over drinking alcohol". Al Arabiya.  
  110. **^** "Indian expat sentenced to 40 lashes in Qatar for drink-driving". Arabian Business.  
  111. **^** "Special report: The punishment was death by stoning. The crime? Having a mobile phone".  
  112. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jenifer Fenton. "Religious law, prison for "blasphemy", severe sexual inequalilty: Qatar's human rights review". 
  113. **^** "What are the worst countries in the world to be gay?".  
  114. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Alex Delmar-Morgan (7 January 2012). "Qatar, Unveiling Tensions, Suspends Sale of Alcohol". _Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  17 January 2012. 
  115. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Jenifer Fenton (16 January 2012). "Qatar's Impromptu Alcohol Ban". The Arabist. Retrieved 17 January 2012. 
  116. **^** "Qatar Distribution Company". Qatar Loving.  
  117. **^** "Purchasing Alcohol in Qatar". Qatar Visitor. 2 June 2007. Archived from the original on 1 May 2011. Retrieved  1 May 2011. 
  118. **^** Walid, Tamara (11 November 2009). "Qatar would 'welcome' Israel in 2022". _The National_. Retrieved  10 August 2013. 
  119. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ James M. Dorsey (17 January 2012). "Debate Questions Emir's Powers To Shape Qatar's Positioning As Sports Hub And Sponsor of Revolts – Analysis". The Eurasia Review. Retrieved 17 January 2012. 
  120. **^** "Alcohol ban lifted for new hotel on The Pearl-Qatar". _Arabian Business_. Retrieved  2017-06-19. 
  121. **^** Elgot, Jessica (28 May 2014). "'Leggings Are Not Pants' Qatar's New Modesty Campaign Aimed At Westerners'". _Huffington Post_.  
  122. **^** Aningtias Jatmika (29 May 2014). "Qatar Bans Tourists from Wearing Leggings in Public". 
  123. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Country Narratives". _Human Trafficking Report 2011_. Office to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, United States Department of State. June 2011. Retrieved  21 January 2012. 
  124. **^** Kelly, Tobias (2009). "The UN Committee against Torture: Human Rights Monitoring and the Legal Recognition of Cruelty". _Human Rights Quarterly_. **313** (3): 777–800. doi:10.1353/hrq.0.0094.  
  125. **^** Conclusions and Recommendations: Qatar (Report). UN Committee Against Torture. 25 July 2006. U.N. Doc. CAT/C/QAT/CO/1. Retrieved  9 January 2012. "Certain provisions of the Criminal Code allow punishments such as flogging and stoning to be imposed as criminal sanctions by judicial and administrative authorities. These practices constitute a breach of the obligations imposed by the Convention. The Committee notes with interest that authorities are presently considering amendments to the Prison Act that would abolish flogging." (Par. 12) 
  126. **^** "Death penalties in the world -Qatar". 2014.  
  127. **^** "LGBT relationships are illegal in 74 countries, research finds". _The Independent_. 17 May 2016.  
  128. **^** "International unions warn Qatar's work visa system allows employers to use forced labour". ITUC-CSI-IGB.  
  129. **^** Owen Gibson (14 May 2014). "Qatar government admits almost 1,000 fatalities among migrants". 
  130. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Qatar to allow trade union, scrap 'sponsor' system". Al Arabiya. 1 May 2012. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  131. **^** Wilson, Nigel (21 July 2014). "Qatar Announces New Labour Law Reforms Amid Workers' Rights Outcry". International Business Times. Retrieved 12 March 2015. 
  132. **^** Walker, Lesley (15 January 2015). "Firms in Qatar who fail to pay workers on time could face suspensions". Doha News. Retrieved 12 March 2015. 
  133. **^** Peter Kovessy (27 October 2015). "Qatar's Emir signs into law kafala changes (updated)". Doha News. 
  134. **^** "Qatar's inaction on labor reform a 'human rights disaster', Amnesty". _RT_. Russia Today. 1 December 2015.  
  135. **^** "Qatar: New reforms Won't Protect Migrant Workers". Human Rights Watch. 8 November 2015.  
  136. **^** Chris Arsenault (28 October 2015). "Qatar complicit in 'modern slavery' despite reforms – unions". Reuters. 
  137. **^** Miles, Hugh (2005). _Al-Jazeera_.  
  138. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Boghardt, Lori Plotkin (6 October 2014). "Qatar Is a U.S. Ally. They Also Knowingly Abet Terrorism. What's Going On?". _New Republic_. Retrieved  7 October 2014. Two overarching goals have driven Qatari policy. One has been to maximize Qatar's influence on the regional and international stage. This originally reflected the personal ambition of the former ruler and current emir's father, Shaykh Hamad bin Khalifa al Thani, and his foreign minister and eventual prime minister, Shaykh Hamad bin Jassim al Thani. The two men directed foreign policy until the father abdicated in favor of his son, Emir Tamim bin Hamad al Thani, in July 2013. The second objective has been to preserve the security of the ruling family and state. 
  139. **^** H Rahman (2005). _The Emergence of Qatar_. Routledge. ISBN 978-0-7103-1213-6. Retrieved  26 June 2013. 
  140. **^** "Qatar relies on US base amid Gulf tensions". FT.com. Retrieved  16 June 2013. 
  141. **^** Zacharia, Janine (4 March 2008). "For Qatar, relations with West are a balancing act". _New York Times_. Retrieved  30 January 2011. 
  142. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Mark Mazzetti; C.J. Chivers; Eric Schmitt (30 June 2013). "Taking Outsize Role in Syria, Qatar Funnels Arms to Rebels". New York Times. Retrieved 21 January 2014. 
  143. **^** "Qatar and Saudi Arabia sign defense agreement". Tehrantimes.com. 25 February 2010. Retrieved  2 October 2010. 
  144. **^** "Qatar recognizes Libyan rebels after oil deal". Al Jazeera. 28 March 2011. Retrieved  29 March 2011. 
  145. **^** Kirkpatrick, David D. (7 September 2014). "Qatar's Support of Islamists Alienates Allies Near and Far". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  5 June 2015. 
  146. **^** Islam Hassan (31 March 2015). "GCC's 2014 Crisis: Causes, Issues and Solutions". Al Jazeera Research Center. Retrieved 4 June 2015. 
  147. **^** Jay Solomon (10 October 2014), _U.S.-Qatar Alliance Strains Coalition Against Islamic State_ , Wall Street Journal 
  148. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ John Defterios (27 October 2014). _CNN_ "ISIS: Can coalition cut off funding of world's wealthiest terror group?".  
  149. **^** "'Army of Conquest' rebel alliance pressures Syria regime". Yahoo News. 28 April 2015.
  150. **^** "Gulf allies and 'Army of Conquest'". _Al-Ahram Weekly_. 28 May 2015.
  151. **^** Kim Sengupta (12 May 2015). "Turkey and Saudi Arabia alarm the West by backing Islamist extremists the Americans had bombed in Syria". _The Independent_.  
  152. **^** The Daily Beast. "Qatar Sends Aid Money to Help Egypt". TheDailyBeast.com. Retrieved 4 November 2013. 
  153. **^** "The Al-Jazeera Effect". Foreign Policy. 9 February 2011.  
  154. **^** Reuters. "Egypt Returns $2 Billion to Qatar in Sign of Growing Tensions". Voanews.com. Retrieved 30 December 2013. 
  155. **^** bbc.com: "Hamas political leaders leave Syria for Egypt and Qatar", 28 February 2012
  156. **^** "Gaza conflict spotlights role of Qatar, the Hamas-funding U.S. ally". 28 July 2014. Retrieved  30 July 2014. 
  157. **^** "Al Attiyah to CNN: Israel doesn't want peace". 28 July 2014. Retrieved  26 October 2014. 
  158. **^** "Qatar pledges $1 billion for Gaza rebuilding at Cairo conference". 12 October 2014. Retrieved  26 October 2014. 
  159. **^** "Enriching the Middle East's Economic Future Conferences". Qatar Conferences. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  160. **^** "Sudan Minister Lauds Doha Declaration For Initiating Darfur Peace Process". _Qatar Chronicle_. 9 June 2013. Retrieved  22 June 2013. 
  161. **^** "Qatar donates $88.5 Million for Darfur". 24 September 2014. Retrieved  21 September 2014. 
  162. **^** "Six nations cut diplomatic ties to Qatar as Arab rift deepens". Hurriyet Ddaily News. 5 June 2017.  
  163. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Saudi Arabia, UAE, Egypt and Bahrain break diplomatic ties with Qatar over 'terrorism '". The Guardian. 5 June 2017. 
  164. **^** "Yemen cuts diplomatic ties with Qatar: state news agency". _reuters_. 5 June 2017.  
  165. **^** "Military expenditure by country as percentage of gross domestic product, 2003–2016" (PDF). _SIPRI_.  
  166. **^** "The SIPRI Military Expenditure Database". Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Archived from the original on 28 March 2010. Retrieved  29 October 2011. 
  167. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "The Strange Power of Qatar by Hugh Eakin". The New York Review of Books. Retrieved  16 June 2013. 
  168. **^** "Trends in International Arms Transfer, 2014". _www.sipri.org_. Stockholm International Peace Research Institute. Archived from the original on 19 March 2015. Retrieved  18 March 2015. 
  169. **^** "TIV of arms imports to the top 50 largest importers, 2016-2016". _SIPRI_.  
  170. **^** "Saudi Arabia uses terrorism as an excuse for human rights abuses". _Al Jazeera America_. December 3, 2015.  
  171. **^** "Yemen crisis: Who is fighting whom?". 28 March 2017. Retrieved  5 June 2017 – via www.bbc.com. 
  172. **^** "Airstrike Hits Doctors Without Borders Hospital in Yemen". Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  173. **^** "Yemen conflict: MSF hospital destroyed by air strikes". 27 October 2015. Retrieved  5 June 2017 – via www.bbc.com. 
  174. **^** "Qatar Municipalities". Qatar Ministry of Municipality and Environment. Retrieved  8 August 2017. 
  175. **^** "2015 Population census" (PDF). Ministry of Development Planning and Statistics. April 2015. Retrieved 8 August 2017. 
  176. **^** "Population By Gender, Municipality And Zone, March 2004". General Secretariat for Development Planning. Archived from the original on 12 December 2006.  
  177. **^** "List of Parties". Convention on Biological Diversity. Retrieved  8 December 2012. 
  178. **^** "National Biodiversity Strategy and Action Plan. State of Qatar" (PDF). Convention on Biological Diversity. Retrieved 9 December 2012. 
  179. **^** A. H. Moubasher (1993). _Soil Fungi in Qatar and Other Arab Countries_. Centre for Scientific and Applied Research, University of Qatar. p.  i–xvi, 570 pp., 86 plates. ISBN 978-99921-21-02-3. 
  180. **^** The Lizards Living in Qatar. 2014. First edition, Published in Doha (Qatar), 2014, 5 June (World Environment Day). 570 pages. Archived 8 July 2014 at the Wayback Machine.
  181. **^** "CO2 emissions (metric tons per capita)". Data.worldbank.org. Retrieved  7 January 2013. 
  182. **^** Pearce, Fred (14 January 2010). "Qatar to use biofuels? What about the country's energy consumption?". _The Guardian_. London.  
  183. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Qatar National Vision 2030". Ministry of Development Planning and Statistics. Archived from the original on 13 November 2012.  
  184. **^** Rasoul Sorkhabi (2010). "The Qatar Oil Discoveries". _GEO ExPro Magazine_.  
  185. **^** Nordland, Rod (25 June 2013). "New Hope for Democracy in a Dynastic Land". NYTimes.com. Retrieved 26 June 2013. 
  186. **^** Bill Crane (20 April 2015). Gravediggers of the Gulf. _Jacobin_. Retrieved 20 April 2015.
  187. **^** "Qatar: Migrant Construction Workers Face Abuse". Human Rights Watch.  
  188. **^** Robert Tuttle (22 May 2014). World Cup Host Qatar Ranked Among Worst Places to Work by Unions. Bloomberg. Retrieved 29 July 2014.
  189. **^** "Qatar tourist guide". Retrieved  14 February 2012. 
  190. **^** "Doing Business in Qatar: 2012 Country Commercial Guide for U.S. Companies" (PDF). US & Foreign Commercial Service And US Department of State. Archived from the original (PDF) on 16 January 2013. Retrieved 7 January 2013. 
  191. **^** "Qatar". OPEC. Retrieved  16 June 2013. 
  192. **^** "The World's Richest Countries". _Forbes_.  
  193. **^** Kortekaas, Vanessa (28 October 2013). "New Qatar emir shakes up sovereign wealth fund". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  30 December 2013. 
  194. **^** "Qatar Holding LLC Among Investors in BlackBerrys $1 Billion Convertible Debt". Berryreview.com. 6 November 2013. Retrieved  30 December 2013. 
  195. **^** Hall, Camilla (30 October 2013). "Qatar fund quietly builds $1bn Bank of America stake". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  30 December 2013. 
  196. **^** Hall, Camilla (4 July 2013). "Qatar: what's next for the world's most aggressive deal hunter?". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  30 December 2013. 
  197. **^** "Taxes on junk food, luxury items to be rolled out in Qatar soon". 16 February 2017. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  198. **^** "layoffs Archives – Doha News". _Doha News_. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  199. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Simon Lincoln Reader (12 November 2013). "Qatar shows how money can solve most problems". Bdlive.co.za. Retrieved 30 December 2013. 
  200. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "History of Census in Qatar". Qatar Statistics Authority. Archived from the original on 20 April 2010. Retrieved  16 June 2013. 
  201. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Population structure". Qatar Statistics Authority. 31 January 2013. Archived from the original on 18 May 2013.  
  202. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Qatar's delicate balancing act". BBC News. 16 January 2013. Retrieved  23 May 2013. 
  203. **^** http://en.tengrinews.kz/people/Qatar-population-hits-25-million-on-worker-influx-263189/
  204. **^** Pandit, Mobin (5 January 2013). "Population rise will push up rents". The Peninsula Qatar. Archived from the original on 29 October 2013. 
  205. **^** Kovessy, Peter. "Though many leave Qatar, there are more people here than ever". _DohaNews.Co_. Doha News. Retrieved  17 January 2016. 
  206. **^** Global Religious Landscape. Pew Forum.
  207. **^** "Population By Religion, Gender And Municipality March 2004". Qatar Statistics Authority.  
  208. **^** "Report on International Religious Freedom – Qatar". US Department of State. Archived from the original on 21 August 2014.  The official state religion follows the conservative Wahhabi tradition of the Hanbali school of Islam 
  209. **^** "Tiny Qatar's growing global clout". BBC. 30 April 2011. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  210. **^** "Qatar's modern future rubs up against conservative traditions". Reuters. 27 September 2012.  
  211. **^** "Rising power Qatar stirs unease among some Mideast neighbors". Reuters. 12 February 2013. Retrieved  13 June 2013. 
  212. **^** "2011 Report on International Religious Freedom – Qatar". US Department of State.  
  213. **^** "Religious Composition by Country" (PDF). _Global Religious Landscape_. Pew Forum. Retrieved  9 July 2013. 
  214. **^** "Christians to Welcome Qatar's First Christian Church". Christianpost.com. 24 February 2008. Retrieved  22 January 2013. 
  215. **^** "CIA The World Fact Book". State.gov. 29 June 2006. Retrieved  28 March 2010. 
  216. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Report on Qatar". Cumorah Project. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  217. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Anglican Centre in Qatar". Epiphany-qatar.org. Archived from the original on 16 January 2013. Retrieved  22 January 2013. 
  218. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ David B. Barrett; George Thomas Kurian; Todd M. Johnson (2001). _World Christian encyclopedia: a comparative survey of churches and religions in the modern world_. **1**. Oxford University Press. p.  617\. ISBN 978-0-19-510318-2. 
  219. **^** Baker, Colin; Jones, Sylvia Prys (1998). _Encyclopedia of Bilingualism and Bilingual Education_. Multilingual Matters. p. 429\. ISBN 978-1853593628.  
  220. **^** Guttenplan, D. D. (11 June 2012). "Battling to Preserve Arabic From English's Onslaught". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  24 November 2013. 
  221. **^** "Qatar Facts". First Qatar Orthodontic Conference.  
  222. **^** Jacot, Martine (23 December 2013). "Le Qatar ne paie pas ses contributions à la francophonie". Retrieved 5 June 2017 – via Le Monde. 
  223. **^** "Clément Duhaime : "Le Qatar n'a pas tenu ses promesses" à l'OIF - JeuneAfrique.com". 22 April 2015. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  224. **^** Kamrava, Mehran (2013). _Qatar: Small State, Big Politics_. Cornell University Press. ISBN 978-0801452093.  
  225. **^** "Qatar National Day 2011". Time Out Doha. 29 November 2011. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  226. **^** "Everything you need to know about Qatar National Day 2012". Doha News. 10 December 2012. Retrieved  18 February 2015. 
  227. **^** "Art in Qatar: A Smithsonian in the sand". The Economist. 1 January 2011. Retrieved  16 June 2013. 
  228. **^** "QMA Board of Trustees". Qatar Museums Authority. Archived from the original on 2 April 2015. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  229. **^** "Qatar revealed as the world's biggest contemporary art buyer". The Art Newspaper. Retrieved  16 June 2013. 
  230. **^** Bohas, Alexander. "The Political Trump-Cards of Cultural Potency Qatar's Policy of 'Cultural Grandeur'". _Chaos International_. Retrieved  13 April 2013. 
  231. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Qatar Freedom of the Press". Freedom House. Retrieved  19 January 2015. 
  232. **^** Barrie Gunter; Roger Dickinson (6 June 2013). _News Media in the Arab World: A Study of 10 Arab and Muslim Countries_. A&C Black. p. 33\. ISBN 1-4411-0239-6. Retrieved  8 February 2014. 
  233. **^** Blanchard, Christoper (2014). _Qatar: Background and U.S. Relations_. Congressional Research Service. p. 17.  
  234. **^** Roth, Richard J. (8 May 2013). "Awaiting a Modern Press Law in Qatar". _New York Times_. Retrieved  16 June 2013. 
  235. **^** "New cybercrime law could have serious consequences for press freedom in Qatar". cpj.org. 27 September 2014. Retrieved  19 January 2015. 
  236. **^** "Qatar: New Cyber Crime Law poses real threat to Freedom of Expression". gc4hr.org. 17 September 2014. Retrieved  19 January 2015. 
  237. **^** _The Report: Qatar 2010_. Oxford Business Group. 2010. p. 237.  
  238. **^** "NRI Overall Ranking 2014" (PDF). World Economic Forum. Retrieved 28 June 2014. 
  239. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Arts and Culture". Embassy of Qatar in London. Retrieved  25 June 2015. 
  240. **^** "Heritage and Culture". Qatar e-Gov. Retrieved  26 April 2015. 
  241. **^** "Qatar – a Sporting Nation". Qatar e-Government. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  242. **^** Gibbes, Martin; Schiller, Emma (4 January 2011). "Fox Sports brings you everything you need to know – and a few things you don't – about the Asian Cup". Fox Sports. Retrieved 12 March 2015. 
  243. **^** Paul Radford (2 December 2010). "Russia, Qatar win 2018 and 2022 World Cups". _Reuters_. Retrieved  2 December 2010. 
  244. **^** "Europe's Top Leagues protest against 2022 winter World Cup in Qatar". _Qatar Chronicle_. 12 August 2013. Retrieved  21 August 2013. 
  245. **^** "Fifa wants Qatar 2022 postponed to Winter". Qatar Chronicle. 20 July 2013. Retrieved  21 August 2013. 
  246. **^** "BBC Sport – Qatar World Cup: '£3m payments to officials' corruption claim". Bbc.co.uk. Retrieved  1 June 2014. 
  247. **^** "World Cup inquiry clears Qatar but criticises English FA". BBC. 13 November 2014. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  248. **^** Pattisson, Pete (25 September 2013). "Revealed: Qatar's World Cup 'slaves'". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  26 September 2013. So entrenched is this exploitation that the Nepalese ambassador to Qatar, Maya Kumari Sharma, recently described the emirate as an "open jail". 
  249. **^** Booth, Robert; Pattisson, Pete (28 July 2014). "Qatar World Cup: migrants wait a year to be paid for building offices". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  250. **^** Owen Gibson and Pete Pattisson (23 December 2014). Death toll among Qatar's 2022 World Cup workers revealed. _The Guardian._ Retrieved 29 May 2015.
  251. **^** Gibson, Owen (14 June 2014). "Qatar hits back at allegations of bribery over 2022 World Cup". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  252. **^** "Match report" (PDF). International Handball Federation. Retrieved 12 March 2015. 
  253. **^** "2014 FIBA 3x3 World Championships". International Basketball Federation. Retrieved  13 November 2015. 
  254. **^** "The homepage of Tour of Qatar". Letour.fr. 1 December 1994. Retrieved  22 January 2013. 
  255. **^** Gay, Chris. "Skydive Mag – Incredible Demo at Doha". Retrieved 5 June 2017. 
  256. **^** "QVA – Qatar Volleyball Association". _QVA_. Retrieved  5 June 2017. 
  257. **^** "In the occasion of Literacy Arab Day, Qatar has the Lowest Illiteracy Rates in 2012". Qatar Statistics Authority. 8 January 2013.  
  258. **^** "Qatar constitution". Archived from the original on 18 September 2013.  
  259. **^** "Our history". Qatar University. Retrieved  12 March 2015. 
  260. **^** Hendengren, Adam (25 June 2013). "SPECIAL REPORT: UNIVERSITY STUDIES IN THE MIDDLE EAST". Your Middle East. Retrieved 12 June 2015. 
  261. **^** "World Data on Education – Qatar" (PDF). UNESCO. Retrieved 21 July 2015. 
  262. **^** Anderson, Margery K.; Tarfa Nasser Alnaimi; Shaikha Hamad Alhajri (1 November 2010). "National student research fairs as evidence for progress in Qatar's Education for a New Era". _Improving Schools_. **13** (3): 235–248. doi:10.1177/1365480210390083. Retrieved  5 June 2017 – via SAGE Journals. 
  263. **^** "Education for a New Era". Supreme Education Council. Archived from the original on 13 September 2005. Retrieved  25 March 2008. 
  264. **^** "Qatar". Ranking Web of Universities. Retrieved  26 February 2013. 
  265. **^** "Stenden University Qatar". Archived from the original on 16 May 2009. Retrieved  22 May 2009. 
  266. **^** _PISA 2012 Results in Focus_. OECD. 2014. p.  5. 
  267. **^** "Key findings – Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development". Oecd.org. Retrieved  30 December 2013. 
  268. **^** http://www.gsdp.gov.qa/portal/page/portal/gsdp_en/knowledge_center/Tab/Qatar_NDS_reprint_complete_lowres_16May.pdf
  269. **^** "Welcome to Al-Bairaq World". Qu.edu.qa. 6 March 2014. Archived from the original on 19 April 2014. Retrieved  14 July 2014. 

## External links[edit]

Find more about **Qatar** at Wikipedia's sister projects

  * Definitions from Wiktionary
  * Media from Wikimedia Commons
  * News from Wikinews
  * Quotations from Wikiquote
  * Texts from Wikisource
  * Textbooks from Wikibooks
  * Travel guide from Wikivoyage
  * Learning resources from Wikiversity

  * Amiri Diwan (official government website).
  * "Qatar". _The World Factbook_. Central Intelligence Agency.  
  * Qatar web resources provided by GovPubs at the University of Colorado–Boulder Libraries
  * Qatar at Curlie (based on DMOZ)
  * Qatar from the BBC News.
  * Wikimedia Atlas of Qatar
  * Key Development Forecasts for Qatar from International Futures.
  * Legal Portal by the Ministry of Justice, including official gazette.

  * v
  * t
  * e

Qatar articles  
  
---  
  
  * History

  
  
Geography |

|

  * Cities
  * Islands
  * Municipalities
  * Protected areas
  * Wadis
  * Wildlife

  
  
---  
  
Politics |

|

  * Consultative Assembly (parliament)
  * Emir
    * House of Thani
  * Foreign relations
  * Human rights
    * LGBT
  * Law enforcement
  * Military
  * Prime Minister

  
  
---  
Economy |

|

  * Agriculture
  * Energy
  * Natural gas
  * Riyal (currency)
  * Stock exchange
  * Telecommunications
  * Transport
    * airports

  
  
---  
Society |

|

  * Crime
  * Demographics
  * Education
  * Health
  * International rankings
  * Women

  
  
---  
Culture |

  * Anthem
  * Art
  * Coat of arms
  * Cuisine
  * Flag
  * Media
    * Al Jazeera
  * Music
  * Public holidays
    * National Day
  * Religion
  * Sports

  
  
  * Outline
  * Index

  * Category
  * Portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Years in Qatar  
  
---  
  
History of Qatar  
  
  * 2020
  * 2021
  * 2022
  * 2023

  
  
  * 2010
  * 2011
  * 2012
  * 2013
  * 2014
  * 2015
  * 2016
  * 2017
  * 2018
  * 2019

  
  
  * 2000
  * 2001
  * 2002
  * 2003
  * 2004
  * 2005
  * 2006
  * 2007
  * 2008
  * 2009

  
  
  * 1990
  * 1991
  * 1992
  * 1993
  * 1994
  * 1995
  * 1996
  * 1997
  * 1998
  * 1999

  
  
  * 1980
  * 1981
  * 1982
  * 1983
  * 1984
  * 1985
  * 1986
  * 1987
  * 1988
  * 1989

  
  
  * Pre-1971
  * 1971
  * 1972
  * 1973
  * 1974
  * 1975
  * 1976
  * 1977
  * 1978
  * 1979

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Foreign relations of Qatar  
  
---  
Africa |

  * Comoros
  * Egypt
  * Ethiopia
  * Kenya
  * Morocco
  * Somalia
  * Tunisia

|  
  
Americas |

  * Canada
  * Mexico
  * United States

  
  
Asia |

  * Bahrain
  * Bangladesh
  * Brunei
  * Hong Kong
  * India
  * Indonesia
  * Iran
  * Israel
  * Japan
  * Kuwait
  * Malaysia
  * Oman
  * Pakistan
  * Philippines
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Thailand
  * United Arab Emirates

  
  
Europe |

  * Cyprus
  * France
  * Germany
  * Russia
  * Sweden
  * Turkey
  * United Kingdom

  
  
Oceania |

  * Australia

  
  
Missions |

  * Diplomatic missions of Qatar
  * Diplomatic missions in Qatar

  
  
Disputes |

  * 2017 Qatar diplomatic crisis

  
  
  * Ministry of Foreign Affairs

  
  
Geographic locale  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Countries and dependencies of Asia  
  
---  
Sovereign states |

  * Afghanistan
  * Armenia
  * Azerbaijan
  * Bahrain
  * Bangladesh
  * Bhutan
  * Brunei
  * Cambodia
  * China
  * Cyprus
  * Egypt
  * Georgia
  * India
  * Indonesia
  * Iran
  * Iraq
  * Israel
  * Japan
  * Jordan
  * Kazakhstan
  * North Korea
  * South Korea
  * Kuwait
  * Kyrgyzstan
  * Laos
  * Lebanon
  * Malaysia
  * Maldives
  * Mongolia
  * Myanmar
  * Nepal
  * Oman
  * Palestine
  * Pakistan
  * Philippines
  * Qatar
  * Russia
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Singapore
  * Sri Lanka
  * Syria
  * Tajikistan
  * Thailand
  * East Timor (Timor-Leste)
  * Turkey
  * Turkmenistan
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Uzbekistan
  * Vietnam
  * Yemen

|  
  
States with limited recognition |

  * Abkhazia
  * Artsakh
  * Northern Cyprus
  * South Ossetia
  * Taiwan

  
  
Dependencies and special  
administrative regions

|

| Australia |

  * Christmas Island
  * Cocos (Keeling) Islands

  
  
---|---  
China |

  * Hong Kong
  * Macau

  
  
United Kingdom |

  * Akrotiri and Dhekelia
  * British Indian Ocean Territory

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Middle East  
  
---  
  
  * Bahrain
  * Cyprus
  * Egypt
  * Iran
  * Iraq
  * Israel
  * Jordan
  * Kuwait
  * Lebanon
  * _Northern Cyprus_
  * Oman
  * _Palestine_
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Syria
  * Turkey
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Yemen

|  
  
  * Cinema
  * Conflicts
  * Cuisine
  * Dance
  * Demography
  * Etiquette
  * History
    * timeline
  * Music
  * Religion
    * Irreligion

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Countries and regions in the Arabian Plate  
  
---  
Countries |

  * Bahrain
  * Djibouti
  * Iraq
  * Israel
  * Jordan
  * Kuwait
  * Lebanon
  * Oman
  * Palestine
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Syria
  * United Arab Emirates

  
  
Regions |

  * Khuzestan Province
  * Southeastern Anatolia Region
  * Southern Denkalya Subregion
  * Awdal
  * South Sinai Governorate

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Countries and territories bordering the Indian Ocean  
  
---  
Africa |

  * Comoros
  * Djibouti
  * Egypt
  * Eritrea
  * France
    * _Mayotte_
    * _Réunion_
  * Kenya
  * Madagascar
  * Mauritius
  * Mozambique
  * _Rodrigues_ (Mauritius)
  * Seychelles
  * Somalia
  * South Africa
  * Sudan
  * Tanzania
  * _Zanzibar_ , Tanzania

|  
  
Asia |

  * Bahrain
  * Bangladesh
  * _British Indian Ocean Territory_
    * _Chagos Archipelago \-  United Kingdom_
  * _Christmas Island_ (Australia)
  * _Cocos (Keeling) Islands_ (Australia)
  * India
  * Indonesia
  * Iran
  * Iraq
  * Israel
  * Jordan
  * Kuwait
  * Malaysia
  * Maldives
  * Myanmar
  * Oman
  * Pakistan
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Sri Lanka
  * Thailand
  * Timor-Leste
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Yemen

  
  
Other |

  * _Antarctica_
    * Australian Antarctic Territory
    * French Southern and Antarctic Lands
    * Heard Island and McDonald Islands
  * Australia

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Countries bordering the Persian Gulf  
  
---  
  
  *  Bahrain
  *  Iran
  *  Iraq
  *  Kuwait
  *  Oman
  *  Qatar
  *  Saudi Arabia
  *  United Arab Emirates

  
  
International membership  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Organisation of Islamic Cooperation (OIC)  
  
---  
Members |

  * Afghanistan
  * Albania
  * Algeria
  * Azerbaijan
  * Bahrain
  * Bangladesh
  * Benin
  * Burkina Faso
  * Brunei
  * Cameroon
  * Chad
  * Comoros
  * Djibouti
  * Egypt
  * Gabon
  * Gambia
  * Guinea
  * Guinea-Bissau
  * Guyana
  * Indonesia
  * Iran
  * Iraq
  * Ivory Coast
  * Jordan
  * Kuwait
  * Kazakhstan
  * Kyrgyzstan
  * Lebanon
  * Libya
  * Maldives
  * Malaysia
  * Mali
  * Mauritania
  * Morocco
  * Mozambique
  * Niger
  * Nigeria
  * Oman
  * Pakistan
  * Palestine
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Senegal
  * Sierra Leone
  * Somalia
  * Sudan
  * Suriname
  * Tajikistan
  * Turkey
  * Tunisia
  * Togo
  * Turkmenistan
  * Uganda
  * Uzbekistan
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Yemen

  
  
Suspended |

  * Syria

  
  
Observers |

|

Countries  
and territories

|

  * Bosnia and Herzegovina
  * Central African Republic
  * Northern Cyprus1
  * Russia
  * Thailand

  
  
---|---  
  
Muslim  
communities

|

  * Moro National Liberation Front

  
  
International  
organizations

|

  * Economic Cooperation Organization
  * African Union
  * Arab League
  * Non-Aligned Movement
  * United Nations

  
  
  * 1 As the "Turkish Cypriot State".

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Arab League  
  
---  
  
  * Arab League
  * Lists
  * Portal Arab world

  
  
Politics |

  * Charter
  * Council
  * Flag
  * Geography
  * Headquarters
  * History
  * Military
  * Joint Defence Council
  * Parliament
  * Arab Union

|  
  
Membership |

| Members |

  * Algeria
  * Bahrain
  * Comoros
  * Djibouti
  * Egypt
  * Iraq
  * Jordan
  * Kuwait
  * Lebanon
  * Libya
  * Mauritania
  * Morocco
  * Oman
  * Palestine
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Somalia
  * Sudan
  * Tunisia
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Yemen (until 2017)

  
  
---|---  
Observers |

  * Brazil
  * Eritrea
  * India
  * Turkey
  * Venezuela

  
  
Suspended |

  * Syria

  
  
Candidates |

  * Chad
  * South Sudan

  
  
Diplomacy |

  * Arab Peace Initiative
  * Arab League monitors in Syria
  * Arab League–European Union relations
  * Foreign relations

  
  
Life |

  * Demographics
  * Economy
    * GDP
    * Economic and Social Council
  * Institutions
  * Sport
  * Transport

  
  
  * Pan-Arabism
  * Union of Arab National Olympic Committees
    * Arab Games

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Organization of the Petroleum Exporting Countries (OPEC)  
  
---  
  
  * Algeria
  * Angola
  * Ecuador
  * Equatorial Guinea
  * Gabon
  * Iran
  * Iraq
  * Kuwait
  * Libya
  * Nigeria
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * United Arab Emirates
  * Venezuela

  
  
  * List of Secretaries General
  * OPEC Fund for International Development
  * OPEC Reference Basket

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf  
  
---  
Member states |

  * Bahrain
  * Kuwait
  * Oman
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * United Arab Emirates

|  
  
Organizations |

  * Peninsula Shield Force
  * Gulf Cup of Nations
  * GCC Patent Office

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Monarchies  
  
---  
  
  * List of current sovereign monarchs
  * List of current constituent monarchs

  
  
Type |

  * Absolute
  * Constitutional
  * Diarchy
  * Elective
  * Federal
  * Hereditary

  
  
By region  
or entity |

| Africa |

  * Lesotho
  * Morocco
  * Swaziland

  
  
---|---  
Asia |

  * Bahrain
  * Bhutan
  * Brunei
  * Cambodia
  * Japan
  * Jordan
  * Kuwait
  * Malaysia
  * Oman
  * Qatar
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Thailand
  * United Arab Emirates

  
  
Europe |

  * Andorra
  * Belgium
  * Denmark
  * Luxembourg
  * Liechtenstein
  * Monaco
  * Netherlands
  * Norway
  * Spain
  * Sweden
  * Vatican City
  * United Kingdom

  
  
Oceania |

  * Australia
  * Tonga
  * New Zealand
    * Cook Islands
    * Niue
  * Papua New Guinea
  * Solomon Islands
  * Tuvalu

  
  
Americas |

  * Antigua and Barbuda
  * Bahamas
  * Barbados
  * Belize
  * Canada
  * Grenada
  * Jamaica
  * Saint Kitts and Nevis
  * Saint Lucia
  * Saint Vincent and the Grenadines

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

FIFA World Cup hosts  
  
---  
  
  * **1930:**  Uruguay
  * **1934:**  Italy
  * **1938:**  France
  * **1950:**  Brazil
  * **1954:**  Switzerland
  * **1958:**  Sweden
  * **1962:**  Chile
  * **1966:**  England
  * **1970:**  Mexico
  * **1974:**  West Germany
  * **1978:**  Argentina
  * **1982:**  Spain
  * **1986:**  Mexico
  * **1990:**  Italy
  * **1994:**  United States
  * **1998:**  France
  * **2002:**  South Korea &  Japan
  * **2006:**  Germany
  * **2010:**  South Africa
  * **2014:**  Brazil
  * **_2018_:**  Russia
  * **_2022_:**  Qatar

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 130142909
  * LCCN: n79077269
  * GND: 4029924-7
  * BNF: cb119457077 (data)
  * NDL: 00565155

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Qatar&oldid=816453795"

Categories:

  * Qatar
  * Arabian Peninsula
  * Arabic-speaking countries and territories
  * Emirates
  * Member states of OPEC
  * Member states of the Arab League
  * Member states of the Cooperation Council for the Arab States of the Gulf
  * Member states of the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation
  * Member states of the United Nations
  * Middle Eastern countries
  * Near Eastern countries
  * Peninsulas of Asia
  * States and territories established in 1971
  * Countries in Asia

Hidden categories:

  * Pages containing links to subscription-only content
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * EngvarB from June 2014
  * Use dmy dates from November 2016
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Articles containing Arabic-language text
  * Pages using infobox country with syntax problems
  * Pages using infobox country or infobox former country with the symbol caption or type parameters
  * Articles with hAudio microformats
  * Articles including recorded pronunciations (English)
  * All articles lacking reliable references
  * Articles lacking reliable references from June 2017
  * All articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases
  * Articles with specifically marked weasel-worded phrases from June 2017
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2014
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from June 2013
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2015
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2016
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2013
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2012
  * Articles with DMOZ links
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikivoyage

### Languages

  * Acèh
  * Адыгэбзэ
  * Адыгабзэ
  * Afrikaans
  * Alemannisch
  * አማርኛ
  * Ænglisc
  * العربية
  * Aragonés
  * ܐܪܡܝܐ
  * Arpetan
  * অসমীয়া
  * Asturianu
  * Авар
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Башҡортса
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * भोजपुरी
  * Bikol Central
  * Български
  * Boarisch
  * བོད་ཡིག
  * Bosanski
  * Brezhoneg
  * Буряад
  * Català
  * Чӑвашла
  * Cebuano
  * Čeština
  * Chavacano de Zamboanga
  * ChiShona
  * ChiTumbuka
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Davvisámegiella
  * Deutsch
  * ދިވެހިބަސް
  * Dolnoserbski
  * ཇོང་ཁ
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Estremeñu
  * Euskara
  * Eʋegbe
  * فارسی
  * Fiji Hindi
  * Føroyskt
  * Français
  * Frysk
  * Gaeilge
  * Gaelg
  * Gagauz
  * Gàidhlig
  * Galego
  * Gĩkũyũ
  * ગુજરાતી
  * गोंयची कोंकणी / Gõychi Konknni
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * Хальмг
  * 한국어
  * Hausa
  * Hawaiʻi
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hornjoserbsce
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Ilokano
  * বিষ্ণুপ্রিয়া মণিপুরী
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Interlingue
  * Ирон
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * Kalaallisut
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * Kapampangan
  * ქართული
  * Kaszëbsczi
  * Қазақша
  * Kernowek
  * Kinyarwanda
  * Kiswahili
  * Коми
  * Kongo
  * Kreyòl ayisyen
  * Kurdî
  * Кыргызча
  * Лезги
  * ລາວ
  * لۊری شومالی
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lëtzebuergesch
  * Lietuvių
  * Ligure
  * Limburgs
  * Lingála
  * Livvinkarjala
  * Lumbaart
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * Malagasy
  * മലയാളം
  * Malti
  * मराठी
  * მარგალური
  * مصرى
  * مازِرونی
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Mìng-dĕ̤ng-ngṳ̄
  * Монгол
  * မြန်မာဘာသာ
  * Nāhuatl
  * Dorerin Naoero
  * Nederlands
  * नेपाली
  * नेपाल भाषा
  * 日本語
  * Нохчийн
  * Nordfriisk
  * Norfuk / Pitkern
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Novial
  * Occitan
  * ଓଡ଼ିଆ
  * Oromoo
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * पालि
  * پنجابی
  * Papiamentu
  * پښتو
  * Patois
  * Piemontèis
  * Tok Pisin
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Qaraqalpaqsha
  * Qırımtatarca
  * Română
  * Runa Simi
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * संस्कृतम्
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * SiSwati
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * Ślůnski
  * Soomaaliga
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Basa Sunda
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Taqbaylit
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * Tetun
  * ไทย
  * Тоҷикӣ
  * Türkçe
  * Türkmençe
  * Удмурт
  * ᨅᨔ ᨕᨘᨁᨗ
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Vepsän kel’
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Volapük
  * Võro
  * 文言
  * Winaray
  * Wolof
  * 吴语
  * ייִדיש
  * Yorùbá
  * 粵語
  * Zazaki
  * Zeêuws
  * Žemaitėška
  * 中文
  * डोटेली

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 21 December 2017, at 12:39.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

