

# Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  
---  
  
Former names

| Rensselaer School  
(1824–1834)  
Rensselaer Institute  
(1834–1861)  
Motto | Knowledge and Thoroughness  
Type | Private  
Established | 1824 (1824)  
Endowment | $635 million (FY2016)[1]  
President | Shirley Ann Jackson  
Provost | Prabhat Hajela[2]  
  
Academic staff

| 499 (2017) [3]  
Students | 7,442 (2017)  
Undergraduates | 6,200  
Postgraduates | 1,242  
Location | Troy, New York, U.S.  
42°43′48″N 73°40′39″W﻿ / ﻿42.7300°N 73.6775°W﻿ / 42.7300; -73.6775Coordinates:
42°43′48″N 73°40′39″W﻿ / ﻿42.7300°N 73.6775°W﻿ / 42.7300; -73.6775  
Campus | Suburban, 265 acres (107 ha)  
Colors | Cherry and white[4]  
  
Athletics |

NCAA

  * Div III – Liberty League
  * Div I – ECAC Hockey (m & w)

  
Affiliations | NAICU  
AITU  
Mascot | Puckman[5]  
Website | www.rpi.edu  
  
Troy

Location of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute in Troy, New York.

 I have established a school at the north end of Troy, in Rensselaer county,
in the building usually called the Old Bank Place, for the purpose of
instructing persons, who may choose to apply themselves, **in the application
of science to the common purposes of life**...

~ Stephen van Rensselaer of Albany to Samuel Blatchford of Lansingburgh.[6]

**Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute** (/ rɛnsəˈlɪər/), or **RPI** , is a
private research university and space-grant institution located in Troy, New
York, with two additional campuses in Hartford and Groton, Connecticut.

The Institute was established in 1824 by Stephen van Rensselaer and Amos Eaton
for the "application of science to the common purposes of life" and is
described as the oldest technological university in the English-speaking
world.[7] Numerous American colleges or departments of applied sciences were
modeled after Rensselaer.[8] Built on a hillside, RPI's 265-acre (107 ha)
campus overlooks the city of Troy and the Hudson River and is a blend of
traditional and modern architecture. The institute operates an on‑campus
business incubator and the 1,250-acre (510 ha) Rensselaer Technology Park.[9]

Today, Rensselaer is organized into six main schools which contain 37
departments, with emphasis on science and technology.[10] It is well
recognized for its degree programs in engineering, computing, business and
management, information technology, the sciences, design, and liberal arts.
RPI's Science MBA, Engineering MBA and Master of Science in Technology
Commercialization and Entrepreneurship are identified as highly inventive and
innovative by the Peterson's guide. [11][12][13] Rensselaer is ranked 42nd out
of all universities in the United States according to _U.S. News& World
Report_.[14][15] Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute is also highly recognized
internationally for its engineering and computing programs, and has been
ranked within the top six universities in the United States for highest median
earnings of recent alumni.[16]

As of 2017, Rensselaer's faculty and alumni include six members of the
National Inventors Hall of Fame, six National Medal of Technology winners,
five National Medal of Science winners, eight Fulbright Scholarship
recipients, and a Nobel Prize winner in Physics; in addition, 85 faculty or
alumni are members of the National Academy of Engineering, 17 of the National
Academy of Sciences, 25 of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, eight of
the National Academy of Medicine, and eight of the National Academy of
Inventors.[17] Research projects include the areas of Astrobiology and
Astrophysics, Biotechnology and Life Sciences, Energy, Environment, and Smart
Systems (EES), Nanotechnology and Advanced Materials, Computational Science
and Engineering, and Cognitive Engineering.

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 1824–1900
    * 1.2 Since 1900
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 1824–1905
    * 2.2 Ricketts Campus, 1906–1935
    * 2.3 Post-war expansion, 1946–1960
    * 2.4 Modern campus, since 1961
    * 2.5 Other campuses
  * 3 Academics
    * 3.1 Rensselaer Plan
    * 3.2 Faculty
    * 3.3 Rankings
  * 4 Research and development
  * 5 Students
  * 6 Greek life
  * 7 Athletics
    * 7.1 Ice hockey (men's)
    * 7.2 Ice hockey (women's)
    * 7.3 Lacrosse (men's)
    * 7.4 Baseball
    * 7.5 American football
    * 7.6 Athletic facilities
  * 8 Student life
    * 8.1 RPI songs
    * 8.2 First Year Experience and CLASS programs
  * 9 Notable alumni
  * 10 See also
  * 11 References
  * 12 Further reading
  * 13 External links

## History[edit]

Main article: History of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

### 1824–1900[edit]

Stephen van Rensselaer, founder of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

Engraving of the original Rensselaer School

Engraving of RPI in 1876

Stephen van Rensselaer established the Rensselaer School on November 5, 1824
with a letter to the Rev. Dr. Samuel Blatchford, in which Van Rensselaer asked
Blatchford to serve as the first president. Within the letter he set down
several orders of business. He appointed Amos Eaton as the school's first
senior professor and appointed the first board of trustees.[6] The school
opened on Monday, January 3, 1825 at the Old Bank Place, a building at the
north end of Troy.[18] Tuition was around $40 per semester (equivalent to $800
in 2012[19]).[6] The fact that the school attracted students from as far as
Ohio and Pennsylvania is attributed to the reputation of Eaton. Fourteen
months of successful trial led to the incorporation of the school on March 21,
1826 by the state of New York. In its early years, the Rensselaer School
strongly resembled a graduate school more than it did a college, drawing
graduates from many older institutions.[20]

Under Eaton, the Rensselaer School, renamed the Rensselaer Institute in 1832,
was a small but vibrant center for technological research. The first civil
engineering degrees in the United States were granted by the school in 1835,
and many of the best remembered civil engineers of that time graduated from
the school. Important visiting scholars included Joseph Henry, who had
previously studied under Amos Eaton, and Thomas Davenport, who sold the
world's first working electric motor to the institute.[21]

In 1847 alumnus Benjamin Franklin Greene became the new senior professor.
Earlier he had done a thorough study of European technical schools to see how
Rensselaer could be improved. In 1850 he reorganized the school into a three-
year polytechnic institute with six technical schools.[22] In 1861 the name
was changed to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.[23] A severe conflagration of
May 10, 1862, known as "The Great Fire", destroyed more than 507 buildings in
Troy and gutted 75 acres (300,000 m2) in the heart of the city.[24][25] The
"Infant School" building that housed the Institute at the time was destroyed
in this fire. Columbia University proposed that Rensselaer leave Troy
altogether and merge with its New York City campus. Ultimately, the proposal
was rejected and the campus left the crowded downtown for the hillside.
Classes were temporarily held at the Vail House and in the Troy University
building until 1864,[26] when the Institute moved to a building on Broadway on
8th Street, now the site of the Approach.[25]

One of the first Latino student organizations in the United States was founded
at RPI in 1890. The Club Hispano Americano was established by the
international Latin American students that attended the institute at this
time.

### Since 1900[edit]

Enrollment History:[27]  
---  
1825: 10 students  
1850: 53 students  
1875: 181 students  
1900: 225 students  
1910: 650 students[28]  
1925: 1,240 students  
1945: 1,604 students  
1950: 3,987 students (dormitory construction on "Freshman Hill")  
1965: 5,232 students  
2017: 7,442 students[29]  
  
In 1904 the Institute was for the fourth time devastated by fire, when its
main building was completely destroyed.[30] However, RPI underwent a period of
academic and resource expansion under the leadership of President Palmer
Ricketts.[31] Named President in 1901, Ricketts liberalized the curriculum by
adding the Department of Arts, Science, and Business Administration, in
addition to the Graduate School. He also expanded the university's resources
and developed RPI into a true polytechnic institute by increasing the number
of degrees offered from two to twelve; these included electrical engineering,
mechanical engineering, biology, chemistry, and physics. During Rickett's
tenure, enrollment increased from approximately 200 in 1900 to a high of 1,700
in 1930.[27]

Another period of expansion occurred following World War II as returning
veterans used their GI Bill education benefits to attend college. The
"Freshman Hill" residence complex was opened in 1953 followed by the
completion of the Commons Dining Hall in 1954, two more halls in 1958, and
three more in 1968. In 1961, there was major progress in academics at the
institute with the construction of the Gaerttner Linear Accelerator, then the
most powerful in the world,[32] and the Jonsson-Rowland Science Center. The
current Student Union building was opened in 1967.

The next three decades brought continued growth with many new buildings (see
'Campus' below), and growing ties to industry. The "H-building", previously
used for storage, became the home for the RPI incubator program, the first
such program sponsored solely by a university.[33] Shortly after this, RPI
decided to invest $3 million in pavement, water and power on around 1,200
acres (490 ha) of land it owned 5 miles (8.0 km) south of campus to create the
Rensselaer Technology Park.[34] In 1982 the New York State legislature granted
RPI $30 million to build the George M. Low Center for Industrial Innovation, a
center for industry-sponsored research and development.

In 1999, RPI gained attention when it was one of the first universities to
implement a mandatory laptop computer program.[35] This was also the year of
the arrival of President Shirley Ann Jackson, a former chairperson of the
Nuclear Regulatory Commission under President Bill Clinton. She instituted
"The Rensselaer Plan" (discussed below), an ambitious plan to revitalize the
institute. Many advances have been made under the plan, and Jackson has
enjoyed the ongoing support of the RPI Board of Trustees. However, her
leadership style did not sit well with many faculty; on April 26, 2006, RPI
faculty voted 149 to 155 in a failed vote of no-confidence in Jackson.[36] In
September 2007, RPI's Faculty Senate was suspended for over four years over
conflict with the administration.[37] On October 3, 2008, RPI celebrated the
opening of the $220 million Experimental Media and Performing Arts Center.
That same year the national economic downturn resulted in the elimination of
98 staff positions across the Institute, about five percent of the
workforce.[38] Campus construction expansion continued, however, with the
completion of the $92 million East Campus Athletic Village and opening of the
new Blitman Commons residence hall in 2009. As of 2015, all staff positions
had been reinstated at the Institute, experiencing significant growth from
pre-recession levels and contributing over $1 billion annually to the economy
of the Capital District.[39] That same year, renovation of the North Hall,
E-Complex, and Quadrangle dormitories began and was later completed in 2016 to
house the largest incoming class in Rensselaer's history.[40][41]

## Campus[edit]

RPI's 275-acre (111 ha)[42] campus sits upon a hill overlooking Troy, New York
and the Hudson River. The surrounding area is mostly residential
neighborhoods, with the city of Troy lying at the base of the hill. The campus
is bisected by 15th Street, with most of the athletic and housing facilities
to the east, and the academic buildings to the west. A footbridge spans the
street, linking the two halves. Much of the campus features a series of
Colonial Revival style structures built in the first three decades of the 20th
century. Overall, the campus has enjoyed four periods of expansion.[18]

### 1824–1905[edit]

RPI was originally located in downtown Troy, but gradually moved to the
hilltop that overlooks the city. Buildings that remain from this time include
Winslow Chemical Laboratory, a building on the National Register of Historic
Places. Located at the base of the hill on the western edge of campus, it
currently houses the Social and Behavioral Research Laboratory.[18][43]

### Ricketts Campus, 1906–1935[edit]

Russell Sage Laboratory

President Palmer Ricketts supervised the construction of the school's "Green
Rooftop" Colonial Revival buildings that give much of the campus a distinct
architectural style. Buildings constructed during this period include the
Carnegie Building (1906), Walker Laboratory (1907), Russell Sage Laboratory
(1909), Pittsburgh Building (1912), Quadrangle Dormitories (1916–1927), Troy
Building (1925), Amos Eaton Hall (1928), Greene Building (1931) and Ricketts
Building (1935). Also built during this period was "The Approach" (1907), a
massive ornate granite staircase found on the west end of campus. Originally
linking RPI to the Troy Union Railroad station, it again serves as an
important link between the city and the university.[44] In 1906 the '86 Field,
homefield of the football team until 2008, was completed with support of the
Class of 1886.

### Post-war expansion, 1946–1960[edit]

West Hall

The Voorhees Computing Center

After World War II, the campus again underwent major expansion. Nine
dormitories were built at the east edge of campus bordering Burdett Avenue, a
location which came to be called "Freshman Hill". The Houston Field House
(1949) was reassembled, after being moved in pieces from its original Rhode
Island location. West Hall, which was originally built in 1869 as a hospital,
was acquired by the Institute in 1953. The ornate building is an example of
French Second Empire architecture.[45] It was listed on the National Register
of Historic Places in 1973.

Another unique building is the Voorhees Computing Center (VCC). Originally the
St. Joseph's Seminary chapel, built in 1933, the building was acquired by
Rensselaer in 1958, and after renovation served as the institute's library
from 1960 until the completion of the new Folsom Library, in 1976.[46] The
Folsom Library, located adjacent to the computing center, has a concrete
exterior that was designed to harmonize with the light gray brick of the
chapel;[47] architecturally, it is an example of the modern brutalist
style.[48] Subsequently, the university was unsure of what to do with the
chapel, or whether to keep it at all, but in 1979 decided to preserve it and
renovate it to house computer labs and facilities to support the institute's
computing initiatives. Today the VCC serves as the backbone for the
institute's data and telephony infrastructure.

### Modern campus, since 1961[edit]

Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies

EMPAC

The modern campus features the Jonsson-Rowland Science Center (J-ROWL) (1961),
Materials Research Center (MRC) (1965), Rensselaer Union (1967), Cogswell
Laboratory (1971), Darrin Communications Center (DCC) (1973), Jonsson
Engineering Center (JEC) (1977), Low Center for Industrial Innovation (CII)
(1987), a public school building which was converted into Academy Hall (1990),
and the Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies (2004).[18]
Tunnels connect the Low Center, DCC, JEC and Science Center. A tenth dormitory
named Barton Hall was added to Freshman Hill in August 2000, featuring the
largest rooms available for freshmen.[49]

On October 3, 2008, the university celebrated the grand opening of the
Experimental Media and Performing Arts Center (EMPAC) situated on the west
edge of campus.[50] The building was constructed on the precipice of the hill,
with the main entrance on top. Upon entering, elevated walkways lead into a
1,200 seat concert hall. Most of the building is encased in a glass
exoskeleton, with an atrium-like space between it and the "inner building".
Adjacent to and underneath the main auditorium there is a 400-seat theater,
offices, and two black-box studios with 35-foot (11 m) to 45-foot (14 m)
ceilings.[51]

In 2008, RPI announced the purchase of the former Rensselaer Best Western Inn,
located at the base of the hill, along with plans to transform it into a new
residence hall. After extensive renovations, the residence hall was dedicated
on May 15, 2009, as the Howard N. Blitman, P.E. ’50 Residence Commons.[52] It
houses about 300 students in 148 rooms and includes a fitness center, dining
hall, and conference area.[52] The new residence hall is part of a growing
initiative to involve students in the Troy community and help revitalize the
downtown. RPI owns and operates three office buildings in downtown Troy, the
Rice and Heley buildings and the historic W. & L.E. Gurley Building.[53] RPI
also owns the Proctor's Theater building in Troy which was purchased in 2004,
with the intention of converting it into office space.[54] As of 2011,
Rensselaer had signed an agreement with Columbia Development Companies to
acquire both Proctor's Theatre and Chasan Building in Troy and launch a
redevelopment.[55][56][57][58]

### Other campuses[edit]

Main article: Rensselaer at Hartford

The Institute runs a 15-acre (6.1 ha) campus in Hartford, Connecticut, and a
distance learning center in Groton, Connecticut. These centers are used by
graduates and working professionals and are managed by the Hartford branch of
RPI, Rensselaer at Hartford. At Hartford, graduate degrees are offered in
business administration, management, computer science, computer and systems
engineering, electrical engineering, engineering science, mechanical
engineering and information technology. There are also a number of certificate
programs and skills training programs for working professionals.

## Academics[edit]

Academy Hall

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute has five schools: the School of Architecture,
the School of Engineering, the School of Humanities, Arts, and Social
Sciences, the Lally School of Management & Technology, and the School of
Science. The School of Engineering is the largest by enrollment, followed by
the School of Science, the School of Management, the School of Humanities,
Arts, and Social Sciences, and the School of Architecture. There also exists
an interdisciplinary program in Information Technology that began in the late
1990s, programs in prehealth and prelaw, Reserve Officers' Training Corps
(ROTC) for students desiring commissions as officers in the armed forces, a
program in cooperative education (Co-Op), and domestic and international
exchange programs. All together, the university offers over 145 degree
programs in nearly 60 fields that lead to bachelor's, master's, and doctoral
degrees. In addition to traditional majors, RPI has around a dozen special
interdisciplinary programs, such as Games and Simulation Arts and Sciences
(GSAS), Design, Innovation, and Society (DIS), Minds & Machines, and Product
Design and Innovation (PDI).[59] RPI is a technology-oriented university; all
buildings and residence hall rooms have hard-wired and wireless high speed
internet access, and all incoming freshmen have been required to have a laptop
computer since 1999.[60] In 2004, _Forbes_ ranked RPI first in terms of
wireless as the "most connected campus".[61] Nationally, RPI is a member of
the National Association of Independent Colleges and Universities (NAICU) and
the NAICU's University and College Accountability Network (U-CAN).

###  Rensselaer Plan[edit]

View of RPI from downtown Troy

With the arrival of the president, Shirley Ann Jackson, came the "Rensselaer
Plan" announced in 1999. Its goal is to achieve greater prominence for
Rensselaer as a technological research university.[62] Various aspects of the
plan include bringing in a larger graduate student population and new research
faculty, and increasing participation in undergraduate research, international
exchange programs, and "living and learning communities". So far, there have
been a number of changes under the plan: new infrastructure such as the Center
for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies, Experimental Media and
Performing Arts Center, and Computational Center for Nanotechnology
Innovations (CCNI) have been built to support new programs, and application
numbers have increased.[63] In 2017, Rensselaer received a record number of
applications: 19,485.[64] According to Jared Cohon, president of Carnegie
Mellon University, "Change at Rensselaer in the last five years has occurred
with a scope and swiftness that may be without precedent in the recent history
of American higher education."[65]

The ability to attract greater research funds is needed to meet the goals of
the plan, and the university has set a goal of $100 million annually. Fourteen
years later, in FY2013, research expenditures reached this goal. To help raise
money the university mounted a $1 billion capital campaign, of which the
public phase began in September 2004 and was expected to finish by 2008. In
2001, a major milestone of the campaign was the pledging of an unrestricted
gift of $360 million by an anonymous donor, believed to be the largest such
gift to a U.S. university at the time. The university had been a relative
stranger to such generosity as the prior largest single gift was $15
million.[66] By September 2006, the $1 billion goal has been exceeded much in
part to an in-kind contribution of software commercially valued at $513.95
million by the Partners for the Advancement of Collaborative Engineering
Education (PACE). In light of this, the board of trustees increased the goal
of the $1 billion capital campaign to $1.4 billion by June 30, 2009. The new
goal was met by October 1, 2008.[67]

In 2016, Shirley Ann Jackson, President of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute,
announced during the Fall Town Hall Meeting that the Institute was in the
final stages of organizing a new capital campaign which it intends to launch
in 2017 to meet the goals of the Rensselaer Plan 2024. The goal of the
campaign was cited as being primarily for the support of financial aid for
undergraduate students and the expansion of on-campus research facilities to
accommodate planned increases in doctoral and graduate enrollment.[68]

### Faculty[edit]

See also: List of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Faculty

### Rankings[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[71] |  103  
_Forbes_[72] |  121[15]  
_U.S. News& World Report_[73] |  42[69]  
_Washington Monthly_[74] |  42[70]  
Global  
_ARWU_[75] |  301  
_QS_[76] |  310  
_Times_[77] |  181  
_U.S. News& World Report_[78] |  379  
  
Rensselaer is consistently ranked among the best universities in the United
States and the world. For over a decade, Rensselaer has remained in the top
fifty national universities in the United States, and is currently listed
among the top six universities for highest median earnings.[16] In 2017, _U.S.
News & World Report_ ranked Rensselaer 42nd among all colleges and
universities and 31st for "Best Value" in undergraduate education.[79][80][81]
As of 2017, Rensselaer's undergraduate engineering program is ranked 30th and
its graduate program is ranked 39th by _U.S. News & World Report_.[82]
Rensselaer's undergraduate and graduate engineering programs include
Aerospace/Aeronautical (23rd), Biomedical (39th), Chemical (22nd), Civil
(27th), Computer (27th), Electrical (26th), Environmental (34th), Industrial
(17th), Materials (22nd), Mechanical (24th), and Nuclear (12th).[83]

In 2013, _U.S. News & World Report_ ranked Rensselaer 6th for multimedia and
visual communications. The same source ranked Rensselaer's computer science
program 47th in the nation for graduates. The Leiden Ranking (2016) placed RPI
at 127 among the top 900 world universities and research institutions
according to the proportion of the top 1% most frequently cited publications
of a university.[84] In 2016, _The Economist_ ranked Rensselaer #18 amongst
four-year non-vocational colleges and universities and Times Higher
Education–QS World University Rankings placed Rensselaer among the top 50
universities for technology in the world.[16][85][86] In 2012, RPI was ranked
as the 4th best engineering school in the world by _Business Insider_.[87] The
_Newsweek_ /Kaplan 2007 Educational College Guide named Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute one of the 25 "New Ivies", a group of 25 schools described as
providing an education equivalent to schools in the Ivy League.[88] In 2017,
Rensselaer was ranked 3rd in the U.S. by _College Factual_ among all
universities in physics. In 2015, _Forbes_ ranked Rensselaer the 12th most
entrepreneurial university in the world. The Lally School of Management and
Technology is ranked 6th in technological entrepreneurship and 21st in
entrepreneurship by _Entrepreneur_.[83] The Lally School's corporate strategy
program was ranked 11th in the nation by _BusinessWeek_ and the management
program was ranked 5th in the nation by _TFE Times_.[89][90]

##  Research and development[edit]

The Low Center for Industrial Innovation, northeast hub of the Smart
Manufacturing Innovation Institute

Rensselaer is classified by The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of
Teaching as a university with higher research activity.[91] Rensselaer has
established six areas of research as institute priorities: biotechnology,
energy and the environment, nanotechnology, computation and information
technology, and media and the arts.[92] Research is organized under the Office
of the Vice President for Research, Jonathan Dordick, who reports directly to
the institute's president Shirley Ann Jackson.[93] In 2017, Rensselaer
operated 34 research centers and maintained annual sponsored research
expenditures of $103 million.

Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies

One of the most recent of Rensselaer's research centers is the Center for
Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies, a 218,000 square-foot research
facility and a national pacesetter for fundamental and applied research in
biotechnology. The primary target of the research center is biologics, a
research priority based on data-driven understanding of proteomics, protein
regulation, and gene regulation. It involves using biocatalysis and synthetic
biology tools to block or supplement the actions of specific cells or proteins
in the immune system. Over the past decade, CBIS has produced over 2,000 peer-
reviewed publications with over 30,000 citations and currently employs over
200 scientists and engineers. The center is also used primarily to train
undergraduate and graduate students, with over 1,000 undergraduates and 200
doctoral students trained.[94][95][96] The center also has numerous academic
and industry partners including the Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
These partnerships have resulted in numerous advances over the last decade
through new commercial developments in diagnostics, therapeutics, medical
devices, and regenerative medicine which are a direct result of research at
the center. Examples of advancements include the creation of synthetic
heparin, antimicrobial coatings, detoxification chemotherapy, on-demand bio-
medicine, implantable sensors, and 3D cellular array chips.[97]

A Blue Gene/P supercomputer similar to Rensselaer's Center for Computational
Innovations

Rensselaer also hosts the Tetherless World Constellation, a multidisciplinary
research institution focused on theories, methods, and applications of the
World Wide Web. Research is carried out in three inter-connected themes:
Future Web, Semantic Foundations and Xinformatics. At Rensselaer, a
constellation is a multidisciplinary team composed of senior and junior
faculty members, research scientists, and postdoctoral, graduate, and
undergraduate students. The faculty of each constellation includes three or
more outstanding stars in a particular research field. The three professors at
TWC are James Hendler, Deborah McGuinness and Peter Fox. Faculty alumni of TWC
includes Heng Ji (Natural Language Processing) [1]. In 2016, the Constellation
received a one million dollar grant from the Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation
for continuing work on a novel data visualization platform that will harness
and accelerate the analysis of vast amounts of data for the foundation’s
Healthy Birth, Growth, and Development Knowledge Integration initiative.[98]

In conjunction with the constellation, Rensselaer operates the Center for
Computational Innovations which is the result of a $100 million collaboration
between Rensselaer, IBM, and New York State to further nanotechnology
innovations. The center is currently home to the most powerful private-
university based supercomputer in the world and it's supercomputer is
consistently ranked among the most powerful in the world, capable of
performing over 1.1 petaFLOPS. The center's main focus is on reducing the cost
associated with the development of nanoscale materials and devices, such as
used in the semiconductor industry. The university also utilizes the center
for interdisciplinary research in biotechnology, medicine, energy, and other
fields.[99] Rensselaer additionally operates a nuclear reactor and testing
facility – the only university-run reactor in New York State – as well as the
Gaerttner Linear Accelerator, which is currently being upgraded under a $9.44
million grant from the US Department of Energy.[100]

## Students[edit]

Rensselaer's Quadrangle dormitory on the central campus

In 2017, Rensselaer's enrollment was 7,442 total resident students, including
6,200 undergraduate and 1,242 graduate.[29] Over 71% of Rensselaer's students
are from out of state. More than 17% of students are international. Rensselaer
students represent all 50 U.S. states and over 58 countries. The undergraduate
student to faculty ratio is 13:1. Among the class of 2020, 66% are in the top
5 percent of their high school class, 93% in the top quarter, and 99% in the
top half. The average unweighted high school GPA for enrolled students was
3.88 on a 4.0 scale, with 65% having a 3.75 GPA or higher and 99% having at
least a 3.0.[101]

Rensselaer's yield rate for the Class of 2020 surpassed 21 percent in the year
2017.[29] The average SAT score range was 1300-1500 for the mid-50% range with
a median SAT score of 1400 on a scale of 1600. The average ACT score range was
28-32 for the mid-50% range with a median ACT score of 30.[102] In 2016,
Rensselaer's freshman retention rate was 94% and admissions selectivity rating
was 35th in the nation according to the _US News& World Report_.[3]

Roughly 12% of students received the Rensselaer medal, a merit scholarship
with a cumulative value of $100,000 for exceptional high school students in
science and mathematics.[102] Altogether 94% of full-time beginning
undergraduate students receive either need-based or merit-based financial aid,
averaging 80% of total need met[103][104]

In the fall of 2016, more than 1,000 women enrolled in Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute's undergraduate engineering programs for the first time in its
history. These women represented 30 percent of the student body in engineering
at the university, and 32 percent of the university's total gender
composition. Shekhar Garde, Rensselaer's dean of engineering, claims he wants
to increase the female composition of the Institute to 50 percent before
2030.[105]

## Greek life[edit]

Main article: List of RPI fraternities and sororities

The Theta Chapter of Chi Phi at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute

The RSE Clubhouse from the South Side near the "Freshman Hill" dorms

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute has an extensive history of Greek community
involvement on campus, including past presidents, honorary academic building
dedications, and philanthropic achievements. The overall Greek system at
Rensselaer stresses Leadership, Fortitude, Innovation, and Evolution.[106] RPI
currently has 29 active fraternities as well as 6 sororities, with 32 percent
involvement of all males and 18 percent involvement of all females, organized
under the Interfraternal Council and Pan-Hellenic Council.[107] Of those Greek
organizations, three were founded at Rensselaer including the Theta Xi
national engineering fraternity, the Sigma Delta Hispanic-interest local
sorority, and the Rensselaer Society of Engineers local engineering
fraternity. Theta Xi fraternity was established by RPI students on April 29,
1864, the only national fraternity founded during the Civil War. The Theta Xi
Fraternity Chapter House is listed on the National Register of Historic
Places. Additionally, Rensselaer is home to the Epsilon Zeta chapter of the
Alpha Phi Omega, or "APO," national service fraternity, which operates a test-
bank and office at the top floor of the Student Union. The organization also
hosts a campus lost & found, universal can tab collection, and a used book
exchange.

In 2017, Chi Phi and Theta Chi at Rensselaer co-hosted an event called "Brave
A Shave For Kids With Cancer," along with several other Greek organizations -
raising over $22,000 for pediatric cancer research with dozens of participants
shaving their heads to spread awareness of pediatric cancers. Many
fraternities and sororities also engage in Adopt-a-Highway and host events in
the local community.[108] Since its inception, all members of Greek Life have
also participated in Navigating Rensselaer & Beyond - RPI's official
continuation of student orientation through hosting annual events open to all
students such as Beach Day/Hike with Greek Life, a day of hiking and team
building activities for incoming freshmen, and Saratoga Therapeutic Equine
Program, a day of service focused on horse rehabilitation programs.

Greek Life organizations also operate Greek-affiliated groups including the
Alumni Inter-Greek Council, Greek Greeks - a student-run venture which aims to
promote sustainability and safe environmental practices in Greek chapter
houses, Greek Spectrum - an LGBTQIA support and advocacy group, and the
undergraduate Greek leadership society Order of Omega. Membership in the Order
is incredibly selective, with Greek-affiliated members in fraternities and
sororities being selected from the top 3 percent of Rensselaer in terms of
academics. Members must also demonstrate exemplary leadership within their
respective Greek chapter, campus, and the local community as a whole. Greek
community members are also involved in hundreds of student clubs and
organizations on campus, often holding leadership positions. Many Greek
organizations at RPI require involvement in at least one on-campus club or
organization to maintain or be considered for membership.

## Athletics[edit]

Main articles: RPI Engineers, RPI Engineers men's ice hockey, and RPI
Engineers women's ice hockey

Official athletics logo

The **RPI Engineers** are the athletic teams for the university. RPI currently
sponsors 23  sports, 21 of which compete at the NCAA Division III level in the
Liberty League; men's and women's ice hockey compete at the Division I level
in ECAC Hockey. The official nickname of some of the school's Division III
teams was changed in 1995 from the Engineers to the Red Hawks. However, the
hockey, football, cross-country, tennis and track and field teams all chose to
retain the Engineers name. The Red Hawks name was, at the time, very unpopular
among the student body; a Red Hawk mascot was frequently taunted with thrown
concessions and chants of "kill the chicken!". In 2009 the nickname for all
teams has since been changed back to Engineers. In contrast, the official ice
hockey mascot, known as Puckman, has always been very popular. Puckman is an
anthropomorphic hockey puck with an engineer's helmet.

During the 1970s and 1980s, one RPI cheer was:

    _E to the x, dy/dx, E to the x, dx_
    _Cosine, secant, tangent, sine_
    _3.14159_
    _Square root, cube root, log of pi_
    _Disintegrate them, RPI!_[109][110]

###  Ice hockey (men's)[edit]

Main article: RPI Engineers men's ice hockey

RPI has a competitive Division I hockey team who won NCAA national titles in
1954 and 1985. Depending on how the rules are interpreted, the RPI men's ice
hockey team may have the longest winning streak on record for a Division I
team; in the 1984-85 season it was undefeated for 30 games, but one game was
against the University of Toronto, a non-NCAA team. Continuing into the
1985-86 season, RPI continued undefeated over 38 games, including two wins
over Toronto.[111] The streak ended at Boston University against the Terriers.
Adam Oates and Daren Puppa, two players during that time, both went on to
become stars in the NHL. Joe Juneau, who played from 1987 to 1991, and Brian
Pothier, who played from 1996 to 2000, also spent many years in the NHL.
Graeme Townshend, who also played in the late 1980s, had a brief NHL career.
He is the first man of Jamaican ancestry to play in the National Hockey
League.

The ice hockey team plays a significant role in the campus's culture, drawing
thousands of fans each week to the Houston Field House during the season. The
team's popularity even sparked the tradition of the hockey line, where
students lined up for season tickets months in advance of the on-sale date.
Today, the line generally begins a week or more before ticket sales.[112]
Another tradition since 1978 has been the "Big Red Freakout!" game held close
to the first weekend of February. Fans usually dress in the schools colors red
and white, and gifts such as T-shirts are distributed en masse. In ice hockey,
the RPI's biggest rival has always been the upstate engineering school
Clarkson University. In recent years RPI has also developed a spirited rivalry
with their conference travel partner Union College, with whom they annually
play a nonconference game in Albany for the Mayor's Cup.

### Ice hockey (women's)[edit]

Main article: RPI Engineers women's ice hockey

The women's ice hockey team moved to the NCAA Division I level in 2005. During
the 2008-09 season the team set the record for most wins in one season
(19-14-4). On February 28, 2010, Rensselaer made NCAA history. The Engineers
beat Quinnipiac, 2-1, but it took five overtimes. It is now the longest game
in NCAA Women's Ice Hockey history. Senior defenseman Laura Gersten had the
game-winning goal. She registered it at 4:32 of the fifth overtime session to
not only clinch the win, but the series victory.[113]

RPI's lacrosse team in a demonstration game at the 1948 London Olympics

### Lacrosse (men's)[edit]

The lacrosse team represented the United States in the 1948 Olympics in
London. It won the Wingate Memorial Trophy as national collegiate champions in
1952.[114] Future NHL head coach Ned Harkness coached the lacrosse and ice
hockey teams, winning national championships in both sports.

### Baseball[edit]

The Engineers baseball squad is perennially atop the Liberty League standings,
and has seen 8 players move on to the professional ranks, including 4 players
selected in the MLB draft. The team is coached by Karl Steffen (Ithaca '78).
The Engineers play their home games at the historic Robison Field.

### American football[edit]

American rugby was played on campus in the late 1870s. Intercollegiate
football begin as late as 1886 when an RPI team first played a Union College
team on a leased field in West Troy (Watervliet). Since 1903, RPI and nearby
Union have been rivals in football, making it the oldest such rivalry in the
state. The teams have played for the Dutchman's Shoes since 1950. RPI Football
had their most successful season in 2003, when they finished 11-2 and lost to
St. Johns (Minn.) in the NCAA Division III semi final game.[115]

### Athletic facilities[edit]

Houston Field House

East Campus Athletic Village, under construction

See also: Houston Field House

The Houston Field House is a 4,780‑seat multi-purpose arena located on the RPI
campus. It opened in 1949 and is home to the RPI Engineers men's and women's
ice hockey teams. The Field House was renovated starting in 2007 as part of
the major campus improvement project to build the East Campus Athletic
Village. The renovations included locker rooms upgrades, addition of a new
weight room, and a new special reception room dedicated to Ned Harkness.[116]
Additionally, as part of the renovations through a government grant, solar
panels were installed on the roof to supply power to the building.

As part of the Rensselaer Plan, the Institute recently completed a major
project to improve its athletic facilities with the East Campus Athletic
Village. The plan included construction of a new and much larger 4,842‑seat
football stadium, a basketball arena with seating for 1,200, a new 50-meter
pool, an indoor track and field complex, new tennis courts, new weight rooms
and a new sports medicine center.[117] The Institute broke ground on August
26, 2007, and construction of the first phase is expected to last two
years.[118] The estimated cost of the project is $78 million for phase one and
$35–$45 million for phase two.[119] Since the completion of the new stadium,
the bleachers on the Class of '86 football field on the central campus have
been removed and the field has become an open space. In the future the new
space could be used for expansions of the academic buildings, but for now
members of the campus planning team foresee a "historic landscape with
different paths and access ways for students and vehicles alike".[120]

## Student life[edit]

Student Union

The students of RPI have created and participate in a variety of student-run
clubs and organizations funded by the Student Union. The Union is unusual in
that it is entirely student-run and its operations are paid for by activity
fees. No other student union located at a private university in the United
States is entirely student run. About 170 of these organizations are funded by
the Student Union, while another thirty, which consist mostly of political and
religious organizations, are self-supporting.[121] In 2006 the _Princeton
Review_ ranked RPI second for "more to do on campus."[122]

Phalanx is RPI's Senior Honor Society.[123] It was founded in 1912, when
Edward Dion and the Student Council organized a society to recognize those RPI
students who had distinguished themselves among their peers in the areas of
leadership, service and devotion to the _alma mater_. It is a fellowship of
the most active in student activities and has inducted more than 1,500 members
since its founding.[124]

RPI has around twenty intramural sports organizations, many of which are
broken down into different divisions based on level of play. Greek
organizations compete in them as well as independent athletes. There are also
thirty-nine club sports.

Given the university's proximity to the Berkshires, Green Mountains and
Adirondacks, the Ski Club and the Outing Club are some of the largest groups
on campus. The Ski Club offers weekly trips to local ski areas during the
winter months,[125] while the Outing Club offers trips on a weekly basis for a
variety of activities.[126]

_The Rensselaer Polytechnic_ is the student-run weekly newspaper.[127] _The
Poly_ prints about 7,000 copies each week and distributes them around campus.
Although it is the Union club with the largest budget, _The Poly_ receives no
subsidy from the Union, and obtains all funding through the sale of
advertisements. There is also a popular student-run magazine called _Statler &
Waldorf_ which prints on a semesterly basis.[128]

RPI has an improvisational comedy group, Sheer Idiocy, which performs several
shows a semester.[129] There are also several music groups ranging from _a
cappella_ groups such as the Rusty Pipes, Partial Credit, the Rensselyrics and
Duly Noted,[130] to several instrumental groups such as the Orchestra, the
Jazz Band and a classical choral group, the Rensselaer Concert Choir.

Another notable organization on campus is WRPI, the campus radio station. WRPI
differs from most college radio in that it serves a 75-mile (121 km)
radius[131] including the greater Albany area. With 10 kW of broadcasting
power, WRPI maintains a stronger signal than nearly all college radio stations
and some commercial stations. WRPI currently broadcasts on 91.5 FM in the
Albany area.

The RPI Playhouse

The RPI Players is an on‑campus theater group that was formed in 1929. The
Players resided in the Old Gym until 1965 when they moved to their present
location at the 15th Street Lounge. This distinctive red shingled building had
been a USO hall for the U.S. Army before being purchased by RPI. The Players
have staged over 275 productions in its history.[132]

### RPI songs[edit]

Main article: RPI songs

There are a number of songs commonly played and sung at RPI events.[133][134]
Notable among them are:

  * "The Alma Mater (Here's to Old RPI)" – sung at formal events such as commencement and convocation, also played and sung by the Pep Band at hockey and football games. It was published in the first book of _Songs of Rensselaer_ printed in 1913.
  * "Hail, Dear Old Rensselaer" – used to be the fight song during the 1960s. It is still played today by the Pep Band at athletic events.
  * "All We've Learned at Rensselaer" – sung at the RPI commencement ceremonies by the Rensselyrics. Although the Rensselyrics are an _a cappella_ group, this song is accompanied by piano. Each verse or section has a different musical style, several of which are closely based on Billy Joel songs or other popular songs.

###  First Year Experience and CLASS programs[edit]

Another notable aspect of student life at RPI is the "First-Year Experience"
(FYE) program. Freshman begin their stay at RPI with a week called "Navigating
Rensselaer and Beyond" or NRB week. The Office of the First-Year Experience
provides several programs that extend to not only freshman, but to all
students. These include family weekend, community service days, the
Information and Personal Assistance Center (IPAC), and the Community Advocate
Program.[135] Recently the FYE program was awarded the 2006 NASPA Excellence
Gold Award, in the category of "Enrollment Management, Orientation, Parents,
First-Year, Other-Year and related".[136]

Since 2008, Jackson's administration has led an effort to form the CLASS
Initiative ("Clustered Learning Advocacy and Support for Students"), which
requires all sophomores to live on campus and to live with special "residence
cluster deans".[137] The transition to this program began in early 2010 among
some resistance from some fraternities and students who had planned to live
off campus.[138][139]

## Notable alumni[edit]

Main article: List of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute people

According to the Rensselaer Alumni Association, there are nearly 100,000 RPI
graduates currently living in the United States, and another 4,378 living
abroad.[140] In 1995, the Alumni Association created the Rensselaer Alumni
Hall of Fame.[141]

Several notable 19th century civil engineers graduated from RPI. These include
the visionary of the transcontinental railroad, Theodore Judah, Brooklyn
Bridge engineer Washington Roebling, George Washington Gale Ferris Jr. (who
designed and built the original Ferris Wheel) and Leffert L. Buck, the chief
engineer of the Williamsburg Bridge in New York City.[141]

Many RPI graduates have made important inventions, including Allen B. DuMont
('24),[142] creator of the first commercial television and radar; Keith D.
Millis ('38),[143] inventor of ductile iron; Ted Hoff ('58),[144] father of
the microprocessor; Raymond Tomlinson ('63),[145] often credited with the
invention of e-mail; inventor of the digital camera Steven Sasson[146] and
Curtis Priem ('82), designer of the first graphics processor for the PC, and
co-founder of NVIDIA.

In addition to NVIDIA, RPI graduates have also gone on to found or co-found
major companies such as John Wiley and Sons, Texas Instruments, Fairchild
Semiconductor, PSINet, MapInfo, Adelphia Communications, Level 3
Communications, Garmin, and Bugle Boy. Several RPI graduates have played a
part in the U.S. space program: George Low (B.Eng. 1948, M.S. 1950) was
manager of the Apollo 11 project and served as president of RPI, and
astronauts John L. Swigert, Jr., Richard Mastracchio, Gregory R. Wiseman, and
space tourist Dennis Tito are alumni.

Political figures who graduated from RPI included federal judge Arthur J.
Gajarsa (B.S. 1962), Major General Thomas Farrell of the Manhattan Project,
DARPA director Tony Tether, Representative John Olver of Massachusetts's 1st
congressional district, and Senators Mark Shepard of Vermont and George R.
Dennis of Maryland.

Notable ice hockey players include NHL Hockey Hall of Famer and 5-time NHL All
Star Adam Oates (1985), Stanley Cup winner and former NHL All Star Mike McPhee
(1982), two-time Calder Cup winner Neil Little (1994), former NHL All Rookie
Joé Juneau (1991), and former NHL All Star Daren Puppa (1985).

Other notable alumni include 1973 Nobel Prize in Physics winner Ivar Giaever
(Ph.D. 1964);[147] the first African-American woman to become a thoracic
surgeon, Rosalyn Scott (B.S. 1970); director of Linux International Jon Hall
(M.S. 1977); NCAA president Myles Brand (B.S. 1964);[148] adult stem cell
pioneer James Fallon; Michael D. West, gerontologist and stem cell scientist,
founder of Geron, now CEO of BioTime (1976); director Bobby Farrelly
(1981),[149] David Ferrucci, lead researcher on IBM's Watson/Jeopardy!
project. 66th AIA Gold Medal winning architect Peter Q Bohlin and Matt
Patricia, defensive coordinator for the New England Patriots. Garrettina LTS
Brown, founder of Garrett's List, King Breeders and inventor of FreeTV. Luis
Acuña-Cedeño, Governor of the Venezuelan Sucre State and former Minister of
Universities. Andrew Franks, current placekicker for the Miami Dolphins of the
National Football League. Sean Conroy, the first openly gay professional
baseball player.

## See also[edit]

  * Capital District portal

  * Association of Independent Technological Universities

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year 2015 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. Retrieved May 19, 2017. 
  2. **^** "Professor Prabhat Hajela Appointed Provost". May 25, 2012. Retrieved  25 May 2012. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ {{url=http://lamp14.server.rpi.edu/president/sites/default/files/RPI_President%27sReport_2016_web_final.pdf}}
  4. **^** "RPI Brand Guidelines" (PDF). 12 June 2015. Retrieved 6 January 2016. 
  5. **^** Symbols of the Institute. Lib.rpi.edu. Retrieved 21 November 2013.
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Ricketts, Palmer C. (1934). _History of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1824-1934, Third Edition_. New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, Inc. p. 34.  
  7. **^** "RPI History". Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Retrieved  1 May 2009. 
  8. **^** "Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute 1824-1924". _Peabody Journal of Education_. Taylor  & Francis Ltd. **2** (3): 169–170. 1924. JSTOR 1488113. ...in 1824 there was only Rensselaer. The Lawrence Scientific School, of Harvard, and the Sheffield Scientific School, of Yale, were not established until 1847. The University of Michigan college of engineering was organized in 1853. The Massachusetts Institute of Technology opened in 1865; Worcester, Stevens, and Case, in 1868, 1871, and 1881. The universities of Illinois and Minnesota inaugurated their courses in technology in 1868; "Wisconsin," its courses in 1870. All these, except Yale, are direct offspring of Rensselaer...  
  9. **^** "Rensselaer in Brief". 2008. Retrieved  22 May 2008. 
  10. **^** "RPI: Academics". _RPI.edu_. Retrieved  15 February 2014. 
  11. **^** https://lallyschool.rpi.edu/programs/undergraduate-programs/scimba
  12. **^** https://lallyschool.rpi.edu/programs/undergraduate-programs/engmba
  13. **^** https://lallyschool.rpi.edu/graduate-programs/ms-tce
  14. **^** "National Universities Rankings". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  15. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ https://www.forbes.com/colleges/rensselaer-polytechnic-institute/
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Our First Ever College Rankings". _The Economist_. 2016. Retrieved  21 October 2016. 
  17. **^** Martialay, Mary L. (August 28, 2017). "Physics Program Top Ten in the Country". _RPI News_. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. news.rpi.edu. Retrieved  7 October 2017. 
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Institute Archives and Special Collections. "RPI Building Histories". Retrieved 21 January 2007. 
  19. **^** "The Inflation Calculator". _Westegg.com_. Retrieved  15 February 2014. 
  20. **^** "CIRCULAR—To the County Clerks of the State of New-York". _The Geneva gazette, and general advertiser_. James Bogert. Retrieved  17 March 2014. 
  21. **^** Wicks, Frank (July 1999). "The blacksmith's motor". _Mechanical Engineering Magazine_. American Society of Mechanical Engineers. Archived from the original on 2007-02-05. Retrieved  28 February 2009. 
  22. **^** "Timeline of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute History 1999". Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  23. **^** _Laws of the State of New York, Volume 1_. Albany, NY: State of New York. 1 May 1861. p.  428. 
  24. **^** The New York Times
  25. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Nehrich, John (27 January 2010). "Classic buildings result of citywide fire". Retrieved 2 March 2010. 
  26. **^** "The Infant School Property". RPI Building Histories. Retrieved  2010-03-02. 
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "NEB&W Guide to the History of RPI". September 8, 2004. Archived from the original on 11 January 2009. Retrieved  2009-02-28. 
  28. **^** _Encyclopædia Britannica_. 1911.  
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "President's Report 2016" (PDF). Retrieved 17 March 2017. 
  30. **^** "FOURTH FIRE AT R.P.I.; Troy's History Technical School Destroyed in $50,000 Blaze". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  16 March 2014. 
  31. **^** "RPI Biography of Palmer Ricketts". Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  32. **^** "History of RPI's Gaerttner Linear Accelerator". Retrieved  28 February 2009. 
  33. **^** "RPI's Incubator Program History". Archived from the original on 19 August 2010. Retrieved  5 September 2011. 
  34. **^** "Academia Linking With Industry: the RPI model". 1989. Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  35. **^** Monahan, Torin (2003). "Hot Technologies on Every Pillow". _Radical Pedagogy_. **4** (1).  
  36. **^** "No-Confidence Motion Fails at Rensselaer Polytechnic". _The Chronicle of Higher Education_. April 27, 2006.  
  37. **^** "RPI faculty approves new constitution". Retrieved  30 December 2008. 
  38. **^** "For RPI, priorities an issue: Layoffs spark questions about school's spending on construction, salaries". Retrieved  30 December 2008. 
  39. **^** http://news.rpi.edu/content/2015/01/20/economic-impact-rensselaer-more-1-billion-annually
  40. **^** http://www.insiderensselaer.com/north-hall-e-complex-renovated/
  41. **^** https://poly.rpi.edu/2015/07/13/quad_undertakes_summer_renovations/
  42. **^** "Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Virtual Campus Tour". Retrieved  1 March 2009. 
  43. **^** "Social and Behavioral Research Laboratory". Retrieved  3 March 2010. 
  44. **^** Institute Archives and Special Collections (2003). "History of The Approach". Retrieved 21 February 2008. 
  45. **^** Institute Archives and Special Collections. "RPI Building Histories : West Hall". Retrieved 28 February 2009. 
  46. **^** "Rensselaer Building Histories: Chapel/Voorhees Computing Center". Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Archives and Special Collections. Retrieved  28 February 2009. 
  47. **^** "Rensselaer Building Histories: Folsom Library". Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Archives and Special Collections. Retrieved  7 October 2017. 
  48. **^** "Mid-century Modern in Troy" [event announcement]. 7 October 2017. DOCOMOMO New York/Tri-State, a local chapter of DOCOMOMO US, national working group of the international organization DOCOMOMO (DOcumentation and COnservation of buildings, sites and neighborhoods of the MOdern MOvement). "The tour will end with the striking Brutalist Folsom Library." Retrieved 7 October 2017.
  49. **^** RPI (2006). "Barton Hall Profile". Retrieved 28 February 2009. 
  50. **^** The Polytechnic (2007). "EMPAC on schedule to open October 2008". Retrieved 9 November 2007. 
  51. **^** "EMPAC Mission". 2007. Archived from the original on 8 June 2008. Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Rensselaer Unveils Newly Renovated Residence Commons in Downtown Troy". RPI Press Release. 15 May 2009. Retrieved  24 May 2009. 
  53. **^** "RPI Campus Map". Retrieved  27 February 2010.  This interactive map can be used to see the locations of the Rice, Heley and Gurley buildings in Troy.
  54. **^** "Rensselaer Announces Purchase of Proctor's Theatre Building in Downtown Troy" (Press release). Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. 6 April 2004. Archived from the original on 14 August 2007. Retrieved  28 October 2008. The goal is to develop a high-end hotel that will provide economic and community benefits to the city of Troy and to the surrounding area 
  55. **^** http://news.rpi.edu/luwakkey/2936
  56. **^** Young, Elizabeth (8 April 2009). "The Drama Over Troy's Theatre". _Albany Times-Union_. Hearst Corporation. Retrieved  10 June 2009. 
  57. **^** "Save Proctor's Theatre advocacy group". Retrieved  27 February 2010. 
  58. **^** Caprood, Tom (23 April 2009). "A discussion about Proctor's". _The Record_. Journal Register Company. Retrieved  11 June 2009. 
  59. **^** "Interdisciplinary Programs". Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Retrieved  9 June 2009. 
  60. **^** "Mobile Computing Program Frequently Asked Questions". Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. Retrieved  6 April 2010. 
  61. **^** David M. Ewalt (22 October 2004). "America's Most Connected Campuses". _Forbes_.  
  62. **^** "The Rensselaer Plan". 1999. Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  63. **^** "Accomplishments of Rensselaer Plan". 2006. Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  64. **^** RPI Press Release (2014). "Gearing up for the Class of 2018: Freshman Applications Surge Past 18,500 at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute". Retrieved 6 May 2016. 
  65. **^** "Board of Trustees Enthusiastically Endorses Leadership and Presidency of Dr. Shirley Ann Jackson". 2006.  
  66. **^** Arenson, Karen W. (13 March 2001). "For Rensselaer Polytechnic, a Record-Setting Gift With No Strings Attached". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  8 March 2007. 
  67. **^** "Historic Rensselaer Capital Campaign Reaches Goal Nine Months Ahead of Schedule" (Press release). RPI. October 1, 2008. Retrieved  3 March 2010. 
  68. **^** "New capital campaign coming in 2017". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  69. **^** "2016 National Universities Rankings". _US News & World Report_. n.d. Retrieved September 13, 2016. 
  70. **^** Template:Url=http://washingtonmonthly.com/college guide?ranking=2016-rankings-national-universities
  71. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  72. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  73. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  74. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  75. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  76. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  77. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  78. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  79. **^** U.S. News & World Report (2016). "America's Best Colleges 2016". Retrieved 12 September 2010. 
  80. **^** "2016 National Universities Rankings". _US News & World Report_. n.d. Retrieved September 13, 2016. 
  81. **^** "Polytechnic article on financial statistics aids". 2016.  
  82. **^** "Ratings & Rankings". Rankings. Archived from the original on 6 June 2011. Retrieved  2 March 2016. 
  83. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "U.S. News & World Report guide to "America's Best Graduate Schools "". 2016. Archived from the original on 6 May 2007. 
  84. **^** "Leiden Ranking 2016".  
  85. **^** "The Top 200 World Universities". _Times Higher Education_. 2016. Retrieved  12 June 2016. 
  86. **^** "The Top 50 Universities for Technology". Times Higher Education. 2007. Retrieved  12 May 2009. 
  87. **^** "The World's Best Engineering Schools". _Business Insider_. 2012. Retrieved  16 July 2012. 
  88. **^** "America's 25 New 'Ivies '". 2006. Archived from the original on 14 July 2011. Retrieved 5 September 2011. 
  89. **^** "Undergraduate Specialty Program Rankings". 2008.  
  90. **^** "Reputation". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  91. **^** "Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  92. **^** "Research Priorities". Retrieved  26 January 2008. 
  93. **^** "Office of the Vice President for Research". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  94. **^** "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 2006-10-10. Retrieved 2006-10-30. 
  95. **^** "Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  96. **^** "The Center for Biotechnology & Interdisciplinary Studies at Rensselaer". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  97. **^** "Industry Partners Program". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  98. **^** "Rensselaer Data Project Addresses Childhood Stunting in Developing Nations". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  99. **^** "Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory and Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute Agree To Jointly Promote Adoption of High Performance Computing". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  100. **^** "Addressing Complex Global Challenges Through Multidisciplinary Collaboration: School of Engineering Reflects on NASA Juno Mission and Role of Research Center in the Modern Rensselaer Experience". _RPI News_. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. news.rpi.edu. October 21, 2016. Retrieved  7 October 2017. 
  101. **^** " http://provost.rpi.edu/institutional-research/common-datasets".   Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  102. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Facts & Figures". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  103. **^** =http://provost.rpi.edu/sites/default/files/CDS_2015-2016.pdf#overlay-context=institutional-research/common-datasets"
  104. **^** "College Navigator - Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute". Retrieved  14 March 2014. 
  105. **^** "Why Rensselaer's engineering dean wants to keep growing women's enrollment". Retrieved  17 March 2017. 
  106. **^** ["https://www.usnews.com/best-colleges/rpi-2803" "https://www.usnews.com/best-colleges/rpi-2803"] Check `|url=` value (help).  Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  107. **^** http://reslife.rpi.edu/update.do?catcenterkey=69.   Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  108. **^** https://www.stbaldricks.org/events/RPI2017#content.   Missing or empty `|title=` (help)
  109. **^** "E to the X". RPI Information. Retrieved  4 September 2011. 
  110. **^** "Witness's recollection of the cheer originating at RPI". Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  111. **^** "RPI Hockey FAQ". Retrieved  3 March 2010. 
  112. **^** "At the beginning of the Hockey Line". RPI History Revealed. 8 September 2009. Retrieved  8 March 2010. 
  113. **^** Women's Hockey Headed to ECAC Hockey Semifinals. RPI Athletics. Retrieved 21 November 2013.
  114. **^** "Timeline of RPI History-1959". Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  115. **^** DiTursi, Dan (2004-01-14). "Football 2003: A season to remember". Retrieved 18 February 2009. 
  116. **^** "Houston Field House Renovation" (PDF). Retrieved 10 September 2008. 
  117. **^** "Giving to Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute - Athletics". Retrieved  5 September 2011. 
  118. **^** "Rensselaer Breaks Ground for East Campus Athletic Village; First Phase to be Completed by Fall 2009" (Press release). RPI. September 4, 2007. Retrieved  3 March 2010. 
  119. **^** "East Campus Athletic Village on Schedule for Fall 2009". Retrieved  20 December 2008. 
  120. **^** The Polytechnic (2 August 2007). "Master Plan Undergoes Public Review". Retrieved 2 December 2007. 
  121. **^** "Rensselaer Union: Clubs and Organizations". Rensselaer Student Union. Retrieved  27 February 2010. 
  122. **^** RPI press release (2006). ""Princeton Review ranks RPI 2nd for "Most to do on Campus"". Retrieved 21 January 2007. 
  123. **^** "Phalanx". Retrieved  9 October 2007. 
  124. **^** "Phalanx Honor Society". Retrieved  30 September 2014. 
  125. **^** "Ski Club website".  
  126. **^** "Rensselaer Outing Club website".  
  127. **^** " _The Polytechnic_ Homepage". Retrieved  21 January 2007. 
  128. **^** "Statler & Waldorf". Retrieved  26 May 2008. 
  129. **^** "Sheer Idiocy Homepage". Retrieved  9 February 2016. 
  130. **^** "Duly Noted A Cappella". Retrieved  2 February 2009. 
  131. **^** 91.5 WRPI - The Upstate Underground - RPI College Radio - Troy, NY. Wrpi.org. Retrieved 21 November 2013.
  132. **^** "RPI Players History". Retrieved  18 May 2010. 
  133. **^** "RPI Songs". RPI Archives and Collections. Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  134. **^** "Songs". Stutt.net RPI Information. Retrieved  5 September 2011. 
  135. **^** "About FYE". Retrieved  23 February 2007. 
  136. **^** "Rensselaer's First-Year Experience Program recognized Among the Best in the Country". Retrieved  23 February 2007. 
  137. **^** "Rensselaer's CLASS Program: a Transformation in the Making". Inside Rensselaer. 5 December 2008. Retrieved  25 February 2010. 
  138. **^** "Housing grant policy changes announced". Retrieved  19 February 2010. 
  139. **^** Lottman, Kelley (17 February 2010). "Housing policy not quite there". The Rensselaer Polytechnic. Retrieved 25 February 2010. 
  140. **^** _Graduate's Guide to Alumni Resources_. Rensselaer Alumni Association. 2010.  
  141. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Rensselaer Alumni Hall of Fame". Retrieved  22 May 2010. 
  142. **^** "Alumni Hall of Fame : Allen B. Du Mont". RPI. Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  143. **^** "Alumni Hall of Fame: Keith D. Millis". RPI. Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  144. **^** "Alumni Hall of Fame: Marcian E. Hoff". RPI. Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  145. **^** "Alumni Hall of Fame: Raymond S. Tomlinson". RPI. Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  146. **^** "The Rediff Interview/Steven J Sasson, inventor of the digital camera". Rediff.com India Limited.  
  147. **^** "Alumni Hall of Fame: Ivar Giaever". RPI. Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  148. **^** "Alumni Hall of Fame: Myles Brand". RPI. Retrieved  2 March 2010. 
  149. **^** Tracey Leibach, "Why is this man smiling?

## Further reading[edit]

  * Baker, Ray Palmer (1924). _A Chapter in American Education: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1824-1924_ (PDF). New York, NY: Charles Scribner's Sons. OCLC 1982907. 
  * Greene, Benjamin Franklin (1855). _The Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute: Its Reorganization in 1849-50, Its Condition at the Present Time, Its Plans and Hopes for the Future_ (PDF). Troy, NY: D.H. Jones & Co. OCLC 41976314. 
  * Nason, Henry B. (1855). _Biographical Record of the Officers and Graduates of the Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1824-1886_ (PDF). Troy, NY: D.H. Jones & Co. OCLC 1675616. 
  * Phelan, Thomas; D. Michael Ross; Car Westerdahll (1995). _Rensselaer: Where Imagination Achieves the Impossible_. Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. OCLC 33427362.  
  * Rezneck, Samuel (1968). "Education for a Technological Society: A Sesquicentennial History of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute" (PDF). Troy, NY: Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute. OCLC 33427362. 
  * Ricketts, Palmer C. (1934). _History of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1824-1934, Third Edition_ (PDF). New York, NY: John Wiley & Sons, Inc. OCLC 3050727. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Rensselaer Polytechnic
Institute**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * RPI Athletics website
  *  "Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute". _Encyclopedia Americana_. 1920.  

  * v
  * t
  * e

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute  
  
---  
Academics |

  * Rensselaer at Hartford
  * Lally School of Management & Technology
  * Center for Computational Innovations
  * Rensselaer Technology Park

  
  
Culture |

  * People
  * History
  * Fraternities and sororities
  * Genericon
  * Grand Marshal Week
  * _The Polytechnic_
  * RPI songs
  * RPI TV
  * WRPI
  * IOP

  
  
Buildings |

  * List of buildings
  * Amos Eaton Hall
  * Carnegie Building
  * Center for Biotechnology and Interdisciplinary Studies
  * Chapel + Cultural Center
  * EMPAC
  * Folsom Library
  * Greene Building
  * Gurley Building
  * Hirsch Observatory
  * Houston Field House
  * Jonsson Engineering Center
  * Low Center
  * West Hall
  * Winslow Building

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute aircraft  
  
---  
Aircraft |

  * RP-1
  * RP-2
  * RP-3

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Polytechnic Institutes and Universities in the United States  
  
---  
Public |

  * AFIT
  * ASU at the Polytechnic
  * Arkansas Tech
  * Cal Poly (Pomona and San Luis Obispo)
  * Colorado Mines
  * Florida Poly
  * Georgia Tech
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas State University Polytechnic Campus
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Michigan Tech
  * Missouri S&T
  * Montana Tech
  * NJIT
  * New Mexico Tech
  * OSUIT
  * Oregon Tech
  * South Dakota Mines
  * Southern Poly
  * SUNY Poly
  * Tennessee Tech
  * Texas Tech
  * UW–Stout
  * Virginia Tech
  * WVU Tech

  
  
Private |

  * Caltech
  * Clarkson
  * Florida Tech
  * Harrisburg U
  * Illinois Tech
  * Indiana Tech
  * Lawrence Tech
  * MIT
  * New England Tech
  * NYIT
  * Northwestern Polytechnic
  * Rensselaer
  * RIT
  * Rose-Hulman
  * Stevens
  * Wentworth
  * WPI

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

ECAC Hockey  
  
---  
Teams |

  * **Brown Bears**
    * men
    * women
  * **Clarkson Golden Knights**
    * men
    * women
  * **Colgate Raiders**
    * men
    * women
  * **Cornell Big Red**
    * men
    * women
  * **Dartmouth Big Green**
    * men
    * women
  * **Harvard Crimson**
    * men
    * women
  * **Princeton Tigers**
    * men
    * women
  * **Quinnipiac Bobcats**
    * men
    * women
  * **Rensselaer Engineers**
    * men
    * women
  * **St. Lawrence Saints**
    * men
    * women
  * **Union Dutchmen**
    * men
    * women
  * **Yale Bulldogs**
    * men
    * women

  
  
Venues |

  * Meehan Auditorium (Brown)
  * Cheel Arena (Clarkson)
  * Starr Arena (Colgate)
  * Lynah Rink (Cornell)
  * Thompson Arena (Dartmouth)
  * Bright Hockey Center (Harvard)
  * Hobey Baker Memorial Rink (Princeton)
  * TD Bank Sports Center (Quinnipiac)
  * Houston Field House (Rensselaer)
  * Appleton Arena (St. Lawrence)
  * Achilles Rink (Union)
  * Ingalls Rink (Yale)
  * Herb Brooks Arena (Men's tournament)

  
  
Championships  
and awards |

  * Men's champions
  * Women's champions
  * Player of the Year
  * Rookie of the Year
  * Coach of the Year
  * Best Defensive Defenseman
  * Best Defensive Forward
  * Ken Dryden Award
  * Student-Athlete of the Year
  * Most Outstanding Player in Tournament

  
  
Seasons |

  * 1961–62
  * 1962–63
  * 1963–64
  * 1964–65
  * 1965–66
  * 1966–67
  * 1967–68
  * 1968–69
  * 1969–70
  * 1970–71
  * 1971–72
  * 1972–73
  * 1973–74
  * 1974–75
  * 1975–76
  * 1976–77
  * 1977–78
  * 1978–79
  * 1979–80
  * 1980–81
  * 1981–82
  * 1982–83
  * 1983–84
  * 1984–85
  * 1985–86
  * 1986–87
  * 1987–88
  * 1988–89
  * 1989–90
  * 1990–91
  * 1991–92
  * 1992–93
  * 1993–94
  * 1994–95
  * 1995–96
  * 1996–97
  * 1997–98
  * 1998–99
  * 1999–00
  * 2000–01
  * 2001–02
  * 2002–03
  * 2003–04
  * 2004–05
  * 2005–06
  * 2006–07
  * 2007–08
  * 2008–09
  * 2009–10
  * 2010–11
  * 2011–12
  * 2012–13
  * 2013–14
  * 2014–15
  * 2015–16
  * 2016–17

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Liberty League  
  
---  
Full members |

  * Bard
  * Clarkson
  * Hobart
  * RPI
  * RIT
  * Rochester
  * St. Lawrence
  * Skidmore
  * Union
  * Vassar
  * William Smith
  * Ithaca

  
  
Associate members |

  * U.S. Merchant Marine _(football)_
  * Susquehanna _(football)_
  * WPI _(football)_

  
  
Former member |

  * Hamilton

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rensselaer_Polytechnic_Institute&oldid=814281395"

Categories:

  * Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute
  * Schools in Troy, New York
  * Universities and colleges in New York (state)
  * Engineering universities and colleges in New York (state)
  * Technological universities in the United States
  * Schools in Rensselaer County, New York
  * Education in New York's Capital District
  * Educational institutions established in 1824
  * 1824 establishments in New York (state)
  * Tourist attractions in Rensselaer County, New York
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Pages with citations lacking titles
  * Pages with citations having bare URLs
  * Pages with URL errors
  * Use dmy dates from January 2014
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the Encyclopedia Americana with a Wikisource reference

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Български
  * Čeština
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Italiano
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Svenska
  * ไทย
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 7 December 2017, at 21:37.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 28 ranking. Rice is No. 39 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

