

# Research university

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

A **research university** is a university that expects all its tenured and
tenure-track faculty to continuously engage in research, as opposed to merely
requiring it as a condition of an initial appointment or tenure.[1] Such
universities can be recognized by their strong focus on innovative research
and the prestige of their brand names.[2] On the one hand, research
universities strive to recruit faculty who are the most brilliant minds in
their disciplines in the world, and their students enjoy the opportunity to
learn from such experts.[3] On the other hand, new students are often
disappointed to realize their undergraduate courses at research universities
are overly academic and fail to provide vocational training with immediate
"real world" applications; but many employers value degrees from research
universities because they know that such coursework develops fundamental life
skills like critical thinking.[4]

Higher education institutions which are not research universities (or do not
aspire to that designation) instead place more emphasis on teaching or other
aspects of tertiary education, and their faculties are under less pressure to
publish or perish.

The concept of the modern research university first arose in 19th century
Germany and developed into its most advanced and successful form in the United
States, centered on three foundational principles: "integration of teaching
and research, academic freedom," and a conception of the nature of research as
open-ended and unending.[5] From the late 20th century to the present, U.S.
research universities have dominated most international college and university
rankings.[6]

Roger L. Geiger, a historian specializing in the history of higher education
in the United States, has argued that "the model for the American research
university was established by five colonial colleges chartered before the
American Revolution (Harvard, Yale, Pennsylvania, Princeton, and Columbia);
five state universities (Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, Illinois, and
California); and five private institutions conceived from their inception as
research universities (MIT, Cornell, Johns Hopkins, Stanford, and
Chicago)."[7]

## See also[edit]

  * History of European research universities

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Pelikan, Jaroslav (1992). _The Idea of the University: A Reexamination_. New Haven: Yale University Press. p. 76\. ISBN 9780300058345. Retrieved  13 January 2017.  As explained therein, Pelikan uses this phrase with reluctance because in his view, it is improper to apply the term "university" to higher education institutions that are not strongly focused on research.
  2. **^** O'Shaughnessy, Lynn (2012). _The College Solution: A Guide for Everyone Looking for the Right School at the Right Price_. Upper Saddle River, NJ: Pearson Education. p. 125\. ISBN 9780132944694. Archived from the original on 15 February 2017. Retrieved  25 January 2017. 
  3. **^** Andreatta, Britt (2011). _Navigating the Research University: A Guide for First-Year Students_ (3rd ed.). Boston: Wadsworth. p. 5\. ISBN 9780495913788. Archived from the original on 2017-02-15.  
  4. **^** Andreatta, Britt (2011). _Navigating the Research University: A Guide for First-Year Students_ (3rd ed.). Boston: Wadsworth. p. 136\. ISBN 9780495913788. Archived from the original on 2017-02-15.  
  5. **^** Menand, Louis; Reitter, Paul; Wellmon, Chad (2017). "General Introduction". _The Rise of the Research University: A Sourcebook_. Chicago: University of Chicago Press. pp.  2–3. ISBN 9780226414850. Archived from the original on 15 February 2017. Retrieved 25 January 2017. 
  6. **^** Cole, Jonathan R. (2009). _The Great American University: Its Rise to Preeminence, Its Indispensable National Role, Why It Must Be Protected_. New York: PublicAffairs. p. 3\. ISBN 9781610390972. Archived from the original on 2017-02-17.  
  7. **^** Crow, Michael M.; Dabars, William B. (2015). _Designing the New American University_. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins University Press. pp. 17–18. ISBN 9781421417233. Retrieved  28 May 2017.  The quoted sentence is Crow and Dabars' paraphrasing of Geiger's analysis.

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Research_university&oldid=811617171"

Categories:

  * Higher education
  * Types of university or college
  * Universities and colleges

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * 日本語
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 22 November 2017, at 20:21.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

