

# Rice University

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Rice University William Marsh Rice University  
---  
  
Former names

| William M. Rice Institute for the Advancement of Literature, Science and Art
(1912–1960)[1]  
Motto | _Letters, Science, Art_  
Type | Private, non-profit  
Established | 1912  
Endowment | $5.324 billion (2016)[2]  
President | David Leebron  
Provost | Marie Lynn Miranda  
  
Academic staff

| 665 full time[3]  
  
Administrative staff

| 2,152[4]  
Students | 6,740 (Fall 2016)[5]  
Undergraduates | 3,879 (Fall 2016)[6]  
Postgraduates | 2,861 (Fall 2016)[6]  
Location | Houston, Texas, U.S.  
Campus | Urban, 295 acres (119 ha)[7][8]  
Colors | Blue and gray[9]  
  
Nickname | Owls  
  
Sporting affiliations

| NCAA Division I – C-USA  
Mascot | Sammy the Owl  
Website | www.rice.edu  
  
**Rice University** , officially **William Marsh** **Rice University** , is a
private research university located on a 295-acre campus in Houston, Texas,
United States. The university is situated near the Houston Museum District and
is adjacent to the Texas Medical Center. Rice is generally considered the
foremost university and the most selective institution of higher education in
the state of Texas.[10][11][12]

Opened in 1912 after the murder of its namesake William Marsh Rice, Rice is
now a research university with an undergraduate focus. Its emphasis on
education is demonstrated by a small student body and 6:1 student-faculty
ratio, and it has been nationally recognized as a leading university for
undergraduate teaching.[3][13] The university has a very high level of
research activity for its size, with $140.2 million in sponsored research
funding in 2016.[14] Rice is noted for its applied science programs in the
fields of artificial heart research, structural chemical analysis, signal
processing, space science, and nanotechnology. It was ranked first in the
world in materials science research by the Times Higher Education (THE) in
2010.[15] Rice is a member of the Association of American Universities.

The university is organized into eleven residential colleges and eight schools
of academic study, including the Wiess School of Natural Sciences, the George
R. Brown School of Engineering, the School of Social Sciences, School of
Architecture, Shepherd School of Music and the School of Humanities.
Undergraduates select from more than fifty majors and two dozen minors, and
have a high level of flexibility in pursuing multiple degree programs.[16]
Additional graduate programs are offered through the Jesse H. Jones Graduate
School of Business and the Susanne M. Glasscock School of Continuing
Studies.[17][18][19] Rice students are bound by the strict Honor Code, which
is enforced by a student-run Honor Council.[20]

Rice competes in 14 NCAA Division I varsity sports and is a part of Conference
USA, often competing with its cross-town rival the University of Houston.
Intramural and club sports are offered in a wide variety of activities such as
jiu jitsu, water polo, and crew. The university ranks very highly in surveys
of student satisfaction, with students frequently citing the residential
system as instrumental to creating close community. In the latest _Princeton
Review_ rankings, Rice ranked as the top university in "quality of life" and
"lots of race/class interaction," and the second in terms of "happiest
students".[21]

The university has produced numerous prominent alumni, including more than two
dozen Marshall Scholars and a dozen Rhodes Scholars.[22][23] Given the
university's close links to NASA, it has produced a disproportionate number of
astronauts and space scientists.[24] In business, Rice graduates have become
CEOs and founders of Fortune 500 companies; in politics, alumni have won
positions as congressmen, cabinet secretaries, judges, and mayors. Two alumni
have won the Nobel Prize, and numerous others are leading researchers in
science, technology, and engineering.[25][26]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Background
    * 1.2 Establishment and growth
    * 1.3 Recent history
  * 2 Campus
  * 3 Organization
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Student body
    * 4.2 Honor Code
    * 4.3 Research centers and resources
    * 4.4 Admissions
    * 4.5 Rankings
  * 5 Student life
    * 5.1 Residential colleges
      * 5.1.1 List of residential colleges (in order of founding)
    * 5.2 Traditions
      * 5.2.1 Baker 13
      * 5.2.2 Beer Bike Race
    * 5.3 Campus institutions
      * 5.3.1 Rice Coffeehouse
      * 5.3.2 Valhalla
      * 5.3.3 Willy's Pub
      * 5.3.4 Rice Bikes
      * 5.3.5 Student-run media
  * 6 Athletics
  * 7 Alumni, faculty and presidents
  * 8 References
  * 9 External links

## History[edit]

### Background[edit]

William Marsh Rice's estate funded the establishment of the Rice Institute

The history of Rice University began with the untimely demise of Massachusetts
businessman William Marsh Rice, who made his fortune in real estate, railroad
development and cotton trading in the state of Texas. In 1891, Rice decided to
charter a free-tuition educational institute in Houston, bearing his name, to
be created upon his death, earmarking most of his estate towards funding the
project. Rice's will specified the institution was to be "a competitive
institution of the highest grade" and that only white students would be
permitted to attend.[27] On the morning of September 23, 1900, Rice, age 84,
was found dead by his valet, and presumed to have died in his sleep. Shortly
thereafter, a suspiciously large check made out to Rice's New York City
lawyer, signed by the late Rice, was noticed by a bank teller due to a
misspelling in the recipient's name. The lawyer, Albert T. Patrick, then
announced that Rice had changed his will to leave the bulk of his fortune to
Patrick, rather than to the creation of Rice's educational institute. A
subsequent investigation led by the District Attorney of New York resulted in
the arrests of Patrick and of Rice's butler and valet Charles F. Jones, who
had been persuaded to administer chloroform to Rice while he slept. Rice's
friend and personal lawyer in Houston, James A. Baker, Sr., aided in the
discovery of what turned out to be a fake will with a forged signature. Jones
was not prosecuted since he cooperated with the district attorney, and
testified against Patrick. Patrick was found guilty of conspiring to steal
Rice's fortune and convicted of murder in 1901, although he was pardoned in
1912 due to conflicting medical testimony.[28] Baker helped Rice's estate
direct the fortune, worth $4.6 million in 1904 ($123 million today), towards
the founding of what was to be called the Rice Institute. The board took
control of the assets on April 29 of that year.

In 1907, the Board of Trustees selected the head of the Department of
Mathematics and Astronomy at Princeton University, Edgar Odell Lovett, to head
the Institute, which was still in the planning stages. He came recommended by
Princeton's president, Woodrow Wilson. In 1908, Lovett accepted the challenge,
and was formally inaugurated as the Institute's first president on October 12,
1912. Lovett undertook extensive research before formalizing plans for the new
Institute, including visits to 78 institutions of higher learning across the
world on a long tour between 1908 and 1909. Lovett was impressed by such
things as the aesthetic beauty of the uniformity of the architecture at the
University of Pennsylvania, a theme which was adopted by the Institute, as
well as the residential college system at Cambridge University in England,
which was added to the Institute several decades later. Lovett called for the
establishment of a university "of the highest grade," "an institution of
liberal and technical learning" devoted "quite as much to investigation as to
instruction." [We must] "keep the standards up and the numbers down," declared
Lovett. "The most distinguished teachers must take their part in undergraduate
teaching, and their spirit should dominate it all."

Rice University

### Establishment and growth[edit]

An illustration of the Administration Building of Rice University in 1913

In 1911 the cornerstone was laid for the Institute's first building, the
Administration Building, now known as Lovett Hall in honor of the founding
president. On September 23, 1912, the anniversary of William Marsh Rice's
murder, the _William Marsh Rice Institute for the Advancement of Letters,
Science, and Art_ began course work. 48 male and 29 female students were
enrolled, paying no tuition, with classes taught by a dozen faculty. Unusual
for the time, Rice accepted coeducational admissions.

Administration Building, Rice Institute, Houston, Texas (postcard, circa
1912-1924)

Three weeks after opening, a spectacular international academic festival was
held in celebration, bringing Rice to the attention of the entire academic
world. Four years later, at the first commencement ceremony, 35 bachelor's
degrees and one master's degree were awarded. That year, the student body
voted to adopt the Honor System, which still exists today. The first doctorate
was conferred in 1918 on mathematician Hubert Evelyn Bray.

During World War II, Rice Institute was one of 131 colleges and universities
nationally that took part in the V-12 Navy College Training Program which
offered students a path to a Navy commission.[29]

The Founder's Memorial Statue, a bronze statue of a seated William Marsh Rice,
holding the original plans for the campus, was dedicated in 1930, and
installed in the central academic quad, facing Lovett Hall. The statue was
crafted by John Angel.[30] The residential college system proposed by
President Lovett was adopted in 1958, with the East Hall residence becoming
Baker College, South Hall residence becoming Will Rice College, West Hall
becoming Hanszen College, and the temporary Wiess Hall becoming Wiess College.

John F. Kennedy speaking at Rice Stadium in 1962

In 1959, the Rice Institute Computer went online. 1960 saw Rice Institute
formally renamed William Marsh Rice University. Rice acted as a temporary
intermediary in the transfer of land between Humble Oil and Refining Company
and NASA,[31] for the creation of NASA's Manned Spacecraft Center (now called
Johnson Space Center) in 1962. President John F. Kennedy then made a
speech[32] at Rice Stadium reiterating that the United States intended to
reach the moon before the end of the decade of the 1960s, and "to become the
world's leading space-faring nation". The relationship of NASA with Rice
University and the city of Houston has remained strong to the present
day[update].

The original charter of Rice Institute dictated that the university admit and
educate, tuition-free, "the white inhabitants of Houston, and the state of
Texas". In 1963, the governing board of Rice University filed a lawsuit to
allow the university to modify its charter to admit students of all races and
to charge tuition. In 1964, Rice officially amended the university charter to
desegregate its graduate and undergraduate divisions.[33] The Trustees of Rice
University prevailed in a lawsuit to void the racial language in the trust in
1966.[34] Rice began charging tuition for the first time in 1965. In the same
year, Rice launched a $33 million ($251 million) development campaign. $43
million ($265 million) was raised by its conclusion in 1970. In 1974, two new
schools were founded at Rice, the Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Management
and the Shepherd School of Music. The Brown Foundation Challenge, a fund-
raising program designed to encourage annual gifts, was launched in 1976 and
ended in 1996 having raised $185 million ($283 million). The Rice School of
Social Sciences was founded in 1979.

On-campus housing was exclusively for men for the first forty years. Jones
College was the first women's residence on the Rice campus, followed by Brown
College. According to legend, the women's colleges were purposefully situated
at the opposite end of campus from the existing men's colleges as a way of
preserving campus propriety, which was greatly valued by Edgar Odell Lovett,
who did not even allow benches to be installed on campus, fearing that they
"might lead to co-fraternization of the sexes".[35] The path linking the north
colleges to the center of campus was given the tongue-in-cheek name of
"Virgin's Walk". Individual colleges became coeducational between 1973 and
1987, with the single-sex floors of colleges that had them becoming co-ed by
2006. By then, several new residential colleges had been built on campus to
handle the university's growth, including Lovett College, Sid Richardson
College, and Martel College.

### Recent history[edit]

George H.W. Bush meeting Vladimir Putin at Rice in 2001

The Economic Summit of Industrialized Nations was held at Rice in 1990. In
1993, the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy was created. In 1997,
the Edythe Bates Old Grand Organ and Recital Hall and the Center for Nanoscale
Science and Technology, renamed in 2005 for the late Nobel Prize winner and
Rice professor Richard E. Smalley, were dedicated at Rice. In 1999, the Center
for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology was created. The Rice Owls
baseball team was ranked #1 in the nation for the first time in that year
(1999), holding the top spot for eight weeks.

In 2003, the Owls won their first national championship in baseball, which was
the first for the university in any team sport, beating Southwest Missouri
State in the opening game and then the University of Texas and Stanford
University twice each en route to the title. In 2008, President David Leebron
issued a ten-point plan titled "Vision for the Second Century" outlining plans
to increase research funding, strengthen existing programs, and increase
collaboration.[36] The plan has brought about another wave of campus
constructions, including the erection the newly renamed BioScience Research
Collaborative[37] building (intended to foster collaboration with the adjacent
Texas Medical Center), a new recreational center and the renovated Autry Court
basketball stadium, and the addition of two new residential colleges, Duncan
College and McMurtry College.

Beginning in late 2008, the university considered a merger with Baylor College
of Medicine, though the merger was ultimately rejected in 2010.[38] Select
Rice undergraduates are currently guaranteed admission to Baylor College of
Medicine upon graduation as part of the Rice/Baylor Medical Scholars program.
According to History Professor John Boles' recent book _University Builder:
Edgar Odell Lovett and the Founding of the Rice Institute,_ the first
president's original vision for the university included hopes for future
medical and law schools.

##  Campus[edit]

Main article: Campus of Rice University

Herzstein Hall, in the Academic Quad

Rice's campus is a heavily wooded 285-acre (115-hectare) tract of land located
close to the city of West University Place, in the museum district of Houston.

Five streets demarcate the campus: Greenbriar Street, Rice Boulevard, Sunset
Boulevard, Main Street, and University Boulevard. For most of its history, all
of Rice's buildings have been contained within this "outer loop". In recent
years, new facilities have been built close to campus, but the bulk of
administrative, academic, and residential buildings are still located within
the original pentagonal plot of land. The new Collaborative Research Center,
all graduate student housing, the Greenbriar building, and the Wiess
President's House are located off-campus.

Rice prides itself on the amount of green space available on campus; there are
only about 50 buildings spread between the main entrance at its easternmost
corner, and the parking lots and Rice Stadium at the West end. The Lynn R.
Lowrey Arboretum, consisting of more than 4000 trees and shrubs (giving birth
to the legend that Rice has a tree for every student), is spread throughout
the campus.

The university's first president, Edgar Odell Lovett, intended for the campus
to have a uniform architecture style to improve its aesthetic appeal. To that
end, nearly every building on campus is noticeably Byzantine in style, with
sand and pink-colored bricks, large archways and columns being a common theme
among many campus buildings. Noteworthy exceptions include the glass-walled
Brochstein Pavilion, Lovett College with its Brutalist-style concrete
gratings, and the eclectic-Mediterranean Duncan Hall. In September 2011,
Travel+Leisure listed Rice's campus as one of the most beautiful in the United
States.[39]

Lovett Hall, named for Rice's visionary first president, is the university's
most iconic campus building. Through its Sallyport arch, new students
symbolically enter the university during matriculation and depart as graduates
at commencement. Duncan Hall, Rice's computational engineering building, was
designed to encourage collaboration between the four different departments
situated there. The building's colorful Martel Foyer, drawn from many world
cultures, was designed by the architect to symbolically express this
collaborative purpose.

The campus is organized in a number of quadrangles. The Academic Quad,
anchored by a statue of founder William Marsh Rice, includes Ralph Adams
Cram's masterpiece, the asymmetrical Lovett Hall, the original administrative
building; Fondren Library; Herzstein Hall, the original physics building and
home to the largest amphitheater on campus; Sewall Hall for the social
sciences and arts; Rayzor Hall for the languages; and Anderson Hall of the
Architecture department. The Humanities Building, winner of several
architectural awards, is immediately adjacent to the main quad. Further west
lies a quad surrounded by McNair Hall of the Jones Business School, the Baker
Institute, and Alice Pratt Brown Hall of the Shepherd School of Music. These
two quads are surrounded by the university's main access road, a one-way loop
referred to as the "inner loop". In the Engineering Quad, a trinity of
sculptures by Michael Heizer, collectively entitled _45 Degrees, 90 Degrees,
180 Degrees_ , are flanked by Abercrombie Laboratory, the Cox Building, and
the Mechanical Laboratory, housing the Electrical, Mechanical, and Earth
Science/Civil Engineering departments, respectively. Duncan Hall is the latest
addition to this quad, providing new offices for the Computer Science,
Computational and Applied Math, Electrical and Computer Engineering, and
Statistics departments.

A stone bench in the Academic Quad

Roughly three-quarters of Rice's undergraduate population lives on campus.
Housing is divided among eleven residential colleges, which form an integral
part of student life at the university (see Residential colleges of Rice
University). The colleges are named for university historical figures and
benefactors, and while there is wide variation in their appearance,
facilities, and dates of founding, are an important source of identity for
Rice students, functioning as dining halls, residence halls, sports teams,
among other roles. Rice does not have or endorse a Greek system, with the
residential college system taking its place. Five colleges, McMurtry, Duncan,
Martel, Jones, and Brown are located on the north side of campus, across from
the "South Colleges", Baker, Will Rice, Lovett, Hanszen, Sid Richardson, and
Wiess, on the other side of the Academic Quadrangle. Of the eleven colleges,
Baker is the oldest, originally built in 1912, and the twin Duncan and
McMurtry colleges are the newest, and opened for the first time for the
2009-10 school year. Will Rice, Baker, and Lovett colleges are undergoing
renovation to expand their dining facilities as well as the number of rooms
available for students.

McNair Hall, home to the Jones School of Business

The on-campus football facility, Rice Stadium, opened in 1950 with a capacity
of 70,000 seats. After improvements in 2006, the stadium is currently
configured to seat 47,000 for football but can readily be reconfigured to its
original capacity of 70,000, more than the total number of Rice alumni, living
and deceased.[40] The stadium was the site of Super Bowl VIII and a speech by
John F. Kennedy on September 12, 1962 in which he challenged the nation to
send a man to the moon by the end of the decade.[41] The recently renovated
Tudor Fieldhouse, formerly known as Autry Court, is home to the basketball and
volleyball teams. Other stadia include the Rice Track/Soccer Stadium and the
Jake Hess Tennis Stadium. A new Rec Center now houses the intramural sports
offices and provide an outdoor pool, training and exercise facilities for all
Rice students, while athletics training will solely be held at Tudor
Fieldhouse and the Rice Football Stadium.

The university and Houston Independent School District jointly established The
Rice School, a kindergarten through 8th grade public magnet school in
Houston.[42] The school opened in August 1994. Through Cy-Fair ISD Rice
University offers a credit course based summer school for grades 8 through 12.
They also have skills based classes during the summer in the Rice Summer
School.

## Organization[edit]

Students walk through the Sallyport upon matriculation and commencement

Rice University is chartered as a non-profit organization and is governed by a
privately appointed board of trustees. The board consists of a maximum of 25
voting members who serve four-year terms.[43] The trustees serve without
compensation and a simple majority of trustees must reside in Texas, including
at least 4 within the greater Houston area.[43] The board of trustees
delegates its power by appointing a President to serve as the chief executive
of the university. David W. Leebron was appointed President in 2004 and
succeeded Malcolm Gillis who served since 1993. The provost, six vice
presidents, and other university officials report to the President. The
President is advised by a University Council composed of the Provost, eight
members of the Faculty Council, two staff members, one graduate student, and
two undergraduate students. The President presides over a Faculty Council
which has the authority to alter curricular requirements, establish new degree
programs, and approve candidates for degrees.[43]

Undergraduate and Graduate Schools

  * The Rice University School of Architecture
  * The George R. Brown School of Engineering
  * The School of Humanities
  * The Shepherd School of Music
  * The Wiess School of Natural Sciences
  * The Rice University School of Social Sciences

|  |

Graduate Schools

  * The Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Management
  * The Susanne M. Glasscock School of Continuing Studies

  
---|---|---  
  
Rice's undergraduate students benefit from a centralized admissions process,
which admits new students to the university as a whole, rather than a specific
school (the schools of Music and Architecture are decentralized). Students are
encouraged to select the major path that best suits their desires; a student
can later decide that they would rather pursue study in another field, or
continue their current coursework and add a second or third major. These
transitions are designed to be simple at Rice, with students not required to
decide on a specific major until their sophomore year of study.

Rice's academics are organized into six schools which offer courses of study
at the graduate and undergraduate level, with two more being primarily focused
on graduate education, while offering select opportunities for undergraduate
students. Rice offers 360 degrees in over 60 departments. There are 40
undergraduate degree programs, 51 masters programs, and 29 doctoral
programs.[17][18]

Undergraduate tuition for the 2011-2012 school year is $34,900. $651 is
charged for fees, and Rice projects an $800 budget for books and $1550 for
personal expenses. Rice students are charged $12,270 for room and board. Per
year, the total cost of a Rice University education is $50,171.[44]

Faculty members of each of the departments elect chairs to represent the
department to each School's dean and the deans report to the Provost who
serves as the chief officer for academic affairs.[43]

## Academics[edit]

Lovett Hall, formerly known as the Administration Building, was the first
building on campus

Rice is a medium-sized, highly residential research university.[45] The
majority of enrollments are in the full-time, four-year undergraduate program
emphasizing arts & sciences and professions. There is a high graduate
coexistence with the comprehensive graduate program and a very high level of
research activity.[45] It is accredited by the Southern Association of
Colleges and Schools as well as the professional accreditation agencies for
engineering, management, and architecture.[46]

Each of Rice's departments is organized into one of three distribution groups,
and students whose major lies within the scope of one group must take at least
12 credit hours of approved distribution classes in each of the other two
groups, as well as completing one physical education course as part of the
LPAP (Lifetime Physical Activity Program) requirement. All new students must
take a Freshman Writing Intensive Seminar (FWIS) class, and for students who
do not pass the university's writing composition examination (administered
during the summer before matriculation), FWIS 100, a writing class, becomes an
additional requirement.[47]

The majority of Rice's undergraduate degree programs grant B.S. or B.A.
degrees. Rice has recently begun to offer minors in areas such as
business,[48] energy and water sustainability,[49] and global health.[50]

### Student body[edit]

_Demographics of student body (fall 2014)_[51] |  Undergraduate | U.S.
Census[52]  
---|---|---  
African American | 6.7% | 12.1%  
Asian American | 22.4% | 4.3%  
White American | 37.7% | 65.8%  
Hispanic American | 14.9% | 14.5%  
Native American | <0.1% | 0.9%  
International student | 12.4% | (N/A)  
Two or more races | 4.4% | (N/A)  
Unknown | 1.3% | (N/A)  
  
Men make up 52% of the undergraduate body and 64% of the professional and
post-graduate student body as of fall 2014.[51] The student body consists of
students from all 50 states, including the District of Columbia, two U.S.
Territories, and 83 foreign countries.[ _citation needed_ ] Forty percent of
degree-seeking students are from Texas.[53]

### Honor Code[edit]

The Rice Honor Code plays an integral role in academic affairs. Almost all
Rice exams are unproctored and professors give timed, closed-book exams that
students take home and complete at their own convenience. Potential
infractions are reported to the student Honor Council, elected by popular
vote. The penalty structure is established every year by Council consensus;
typically, penalties have ranged from a letter of reprimand to an 'F' in the
course and a two semester suspension.[54] During Orientation Week, students
must take and pass a test demonstrating that they understand the Honor
System's requirements and sign a Matriculation Pledge. On assignments, Rice
students affirm their commitment to the Honor Code by writing _On my honor, I
have neither given nor received any unauthorized aid on this (examination,
quiz or paper)._[20]

###  Research centers and resources[edit]

Rice is noted for its pioneer applied science programs in the fields of
nanotechnology, artificial heart research, structural chemical analysis, and
space science, being ranked 1st in the world in materials science research by
the Times Higher Education (THE) in 2010.[55]

  * Richard E. Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology (Smalley Institute)[56] \- the nation's first nanotechnology center
  * Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology (CBEN)[57] \- promotes the discovery and development of nanomaterials that enable new medical and environmental technologies
  * Laboratory for Nanophotonics (LANP)[58] \- provides a resource for education and research breakthroughs and advances in the broad, multidisciplinary field of nanophotonics
  * Digital Signal Processing (DSP)[59] \- center for education and research in the field of digital signal processing
  * Rice Quantum Institute[60] \- organization dedicated to research and higher education in areas relating to quantum phenomena
  * Rice Space Institute[61] -fosters programs in all areas of space research
  * Institute of Biosciences and Bioengineering (IBB)[62] \- facilitates the translation of interdisciplinary research and education in biosciences and bioengineering
  * Ken Kennedy Institute for Information Technology[63] \- dedicated to the advancement of applied interdisciplinary research in the areas of computation and information technology
  * Baker Institute for Public Policy[64] \- one of the leading nonpartisan public policy think-tanks in the country
  * OpenStax CNX (formerly _Connexions_ ) and OpenStax College \- an open source platform and open access publisher, respectively, of open educational resources
  * Rice Alliance for Technology and Entrepreneurship \- supports entrepreneurs and early-stage technology ventures in Houston and Texas through education, collaboration, and research, ranked No. 1 among top university business incubators.[65]
  * Mid-InfraRed Technologies for Health and the Environment (MIRTHE)
  * Rice Gallery[66]
  * Kinder Institute for Urban Research - conducts the Houston Area Survey, "the nation's longest running study of any metropolitan region's economy, population, life experiences, beliefs and attitudes" [67]
  * Humanities Research Center (HRC) - identifies, encourages, and funds innovative research projects by faculty, visiting scholars, graduate, and undergraduate students in the School of Humanities and beyond[68]
  * Center for the Study of Women, Gender, and Sexuality (CSWGS)[69]
  * Rice Center for Critical and Cultural Theory (3CT) - promotes intellectual synergy and community among Rice faculty and graduate students whose work is informed by a deep and sustained engagement with critical and cultural theory and their ongoing development and permutations[70]
  * Chao Center for Asian Studies[71]

### Admissions[edit]

_Fall Freshman Statistics_   | 2016[72] | 2015[73] | 2014[74] | 2013[75]  
---|---|---|---|---  
Applicants | 18,236 | 17,951 | 17,728 | 15,415  
Admits | 2,785 | 2,865 | 2,677 | 2,581  
Admit rate | 15.3% | 16.0% | 15.1% | 16.7%  
Enrolled | 981 | 969 | 949 | 978  
SAT range | 2090-2340 | 2070-2330 | 2060-2320 | 2040-2320  
ACT range | 32-35 | 32-35 | 31-34 | 31-34  
  
Admission to Rice is rated as "most selective" by _U.S. News& World
Report_.[76]

For fall 2015, Rice received 17,951 freshmen applications; 2,865 were admitted
(16.0%) and 969 enrolled.[73] The middle 50% range of SAT scores were 680-760
for critical reading, 710-800 for math, and 680-770 for writing; the middle
50% range of the ACT Composite score was 32-35.[73]

### Rankings[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[77] |  38  
_Forbes_[78] |  22  
_U.S. News& World Report_[79] |  14  
_Washington Monthly_[80] |  36  
Global  
_ARWU_[81] |  72  
_QS_[82] |  90  
_Times_[83] |  86  
_U.S. News& World Report_[84] |  81  
  
USNWR graduate school rankings[85]  
  
---  
Business | 29  
Engineering | 29  
  
USNWR departmental rankings[85]  
  
---  
Biological Sciences | 42  
Chemistry | 33  
Computer Science | 20  
Earth Sciences | 25  
Economics | 42  
English | 35  
History | 34  
Mathematics | 28  
Physics | 26  
Political Science | 33  
Psychology | 50  
Statistics | 28  
  
In 2017, Rice was ranked 86th in the world by the _Times Higher Education
World University Rankings_. In 2016, Rice was ranked tied for 72nd
internationally (38th nationally) by the _Academic Ranking of World
Universities_. Rice University was also ranked 90th globally in 2016 by _QS
World University Rankings_. Rice is noted for its entrepreneurial activity,
and has been recognized as the top ranked business incubator in the world by
the Stockholm-based UBI Index for both 2013 and 2014.[86]

Rice was ranked tied at 14th among national universities and 81st among global
universities, and 3rd for "best undergraduate teaching" in the U.S. by _U.S.
News& World Report_ in its 2018 edition.[87] _USNWR_ also ranked both the
Jones Graduate School of Management and the Brown School of Engineering 29th
in the nation in 2017.[87] _Forbes_ magazine ranked Rice University at 22nd
nationally among both liberal arts colleges and universities in 2017.[88]
_Kiplinger's Personal Finance_ places Rice 4th in its 2015 ranking of best
value private universities in the United States.[89]

The _Princeton Review_ ranked Rice 1st for "Best Quality of Life" and
"Happiest Students" in its 2012 edition,[90] 20th among LGBT friendliest
colleges in its 2014 edition,[91] and one of the top 50 best value private
colleges in its 2011 edition.[92] Rice was ranked 41st among research
universities by the Center for Measuring University Performance in 2007.[93]
_Consumer's Digest_ ranked Rice 3rd on the list of top 5 values in private
colleges in its June 2011 issue.[94] _Fiske Guide to Colleges_ ranked Rice as
one of the top 25 private "best buy" schools in its 2012 edition.[95] In 2011
the Leiden Ranking, which measures the performance of 500 major research
universities worldwide, using metrics designed to measure research impact
ranked Rice 4th Globally, for effectiveness and contribution of
research.[96][97][98] In 2013 the university was again ranked first globally
for quality of research in natural sciences and engineering, and 6th globally
for all sciences.[99] In 2014, _The Daily Beast_ ranked Rice 14th out of
nearly 2,000 schools it evaluated.[100] In 2016, _Money Magazine_ ranked Rice
4th in the nation.[101]

##  Student life[edit]

A view along the inner loop, with three of the university service personnel's
traditional golf carts in view

Situated on nearly 300 acres (120 ha) in the heart of Houston's Museum
District and across the street from the city's Hermann Park, Rice is a green
and leafy refuge – an oasis of learning convenient to the amenities of the
nation's fourth-largest city. Rice's campus adjoins Hermann Park, the Texas
Medical Center, and a neighborhood commercial center called Rice Village.
Hermann Park includes the Houston Museum of Natural Science, the Houston Zoo,
Miller Outdoor Theatre and an 18-hole municipal golf course. Reliant Park,
home of Reliant Stadium and the Astrodome, is two miles (3 km) south of the
campus. Among the dozen or so museums in the Museum District is the Rice
University Art Gallery, open during the school year. Easy access to downtown's
theater and nightlife district and to Reliant Park is provided by the Houston
METRORail system, with a station adjacent to the campus's main gate. The
campus recently joined the Zipcar program with two vehicles to increase the
transportation options for students and staff who need but currently don't
utilize a vehicle.[102]

### Residential colleges[edit]

Main article: Residential colleges of Rice University

In 1957, Rice University implemented a residential college system, as proposed
by the university's first president, Edgar Odell Lovett. The system was
inspired by existing systems in place at Oxford and Cambridge in England and
at several other universities in the United States, most notably Yale
University. The existing residences known as East, South, West, and Wiess
Halls became Baker, Will Rice, Hanszen, and Wiess Colleges, respectively.

#### List of residential colleges (in order of founding)[edit]

This is a list of residential colleges at Rice:[103]

  1. Baker College, named in honor of Captain James A. Baker, friend and attorney of William Marsh Rice, and first chair of the Rice Board of Governors.
  2. Will Rice College, named for William M. Rice, Jr., the nephew of the university's founder, William Marsh Rice.
  3. Hanszen College, named for Harry Clay Hanszen, benefactor to the university and chairman of the Rice Board of Governors from 1946-1950.
  4. Wiess College, named for Harry Carothers Wiess (1887–1948), one of the founders and one-time president of Humble Oil, now ExxonMobil.
  5. Jones College, named for Mary Gibbs Jones, wife of prominent Houston philanthropist Jesse Holman Jones.
  6. Brown College, named for Margaret Root Brown by her in-laws, George R. Brown.
  7. Lovett College, named after the university's first president, Edgar Odell Lovett.
  8. Sid Richardson College, named for the Sid Richardson Foundation, which was established by Texas oilman, cattleman, and philanthropist Sid W. Richardson.
  9. Martel College, named for Marian and Speros P. Martel, was built in 2002.
  10. McMurtry College, named for Rice alumni Burt and Deedee McMurtry, Silicon Valley venture capitalists.
  11. Duncan College, named for Charles Duncan, Jr., Secretary of Energy.

Although each college is composed of a full cross-section of students at Rice,
they have over time developed their own traditions and "personalities". When
students matriculate they are randomly assigned to one of the eleven colleges,
although "legacy" exceptions are made for students whose siblings or parents
have attended Rice [104] . Students generally remain members of the college
that they are assigned to for the duration of their undergraduate careers,
even if they move off-campus at any point. Students are guaranteed on-campus
housing for freshman year and two of the next three years; each college has
its own system for determining allocation of the remaining spaces,
collectively known as "Room Jacking". Students develop strong loyalties to
their college and maintain friendly rivalry with other colleges, especially
during events such as Beer Bike Race and O-Week. Colleges keep their rivalries
alive by performing "jacks," or pranks, on each other, especially during
O-Week and Willy Week. During Matriculation, Commencement, and other formal
academic ceremonies, the colleges process in the order in which they were
established.

### Traditions[edit]

#### Baker 13[edit]

The Baker 13 is a tradition in which students run around campus wearing
nothing but shoes and shaving cream at 10 p.m. on the 13th and the 31st of
every month, as well as the 26th on months with fewer than 31 days. The event,
long sponsored by Baker College, usually attracts a small number of students,
but Halloween night and the first and last relevant days of the school year
both attract large numbers of revelers.[105]

Rice University students participating in the Beer Bike water balloon fight in
front of the Sallyport.

#### Beer Bike Race[edit]

According to the official website: "Beer Bike is a combination intramural
bicycle race and drinking competition dating back to 1957. Ten riders and ten
chuggers make up a team. Elaborate rules include details such as a prohibition
of "bulky or wet clothing articles designed to absorb beer/water or prevent
spilled beer/water from being seen" and regulations for chug can design. Each
residential college as well as the Graduate Student Association participates
with a men's team, a women's team, and alumni (co-ed) team. Each leg of the
race is a relay in which a team's "chugger" must chug 24 US fluid ounces (710
ml) of beer or water for the men's division and 12 US fluid ounces (350 ml)
for women before the team's "rider" may begin to ride.[106] Participants who
both ride and chug are referred to as "Ironmen". Willy Week is a term coined
in the 1990s to refer to the week preceding Beer-Bike, a time of general
energy and excitement on campus. Jacks (pranks) are especially common during
Willy Week; some examples in the past include removing showerheads and
encasing the Hanszen guardian." The morning of the Beer Bike race itself
begins with what is by some estimations the largest annual water balloon fight
in the world. Beer-Bike is Rice's most prominent student event, and for
younger alumni it serves as an unofficial reunion weekend on par with
Homecoming. The 2009 Beer Bike race was dedicated to the memory of Dr. Bill
Wilson, a popular professor and long-time resident associate of Wiess College
who died earlier that year.

In the event of inclement weather, Beer Bike becomes a Beer Run. The rules are
nearly identical, except that the Bikers must instead run the length of the
track. The most recent Beer Run was won by Martel in 2016.

### Campus institutions[edit]

A number of on-campus institutions form an integral part of student life at
Rice. Many of these organizations have been operating for several decades.

#### Rice Coffeehouse[edit]

Rice Coffeehouse finds its beginnings in Hanszen College, where students would
serve coffee in the Weenie Loft, a study room in the old section's fourth
floor. Later, the coffee house moved to the Hanszen basement to accommodate
more student patrons. That coffeehouse became known as Breadsticks and
Pomegranates. Due to flooding, an unfortunate effect of 1) its location in the
basement and 2) the Houston climate, this coffee house closed. Demand for an
on-campus Coffeehouse grew and in 1990, the Rice Coffeehouse was founded.

The Rice Coffeehouse is a not-for-profit student-run organization serving Rice
University and the greater Houston community.[107] Over the past few years,[
_when?_ ] it has introduced fair-trade and organic coffee and loose-leaf
teas.[108]

Coffeehouse baristas are referred to as K.O.C.'s, or Keepers of the Coffee.
Rice Coffeehouse has also adopted an unofficial mascot, the squirrel, which
can be found on T-shirts, mugs, and bumper stickers stuck on laptops across
campus. The logo pays tribute to Rice's unusually plump and frighteningly tame
squirrel population.

#### Valhalla[edit]

Valhalla is a non-profit graduate student pub located under Keck Hall which
serves as the social nexus for graduate student life at Rice, and the pub is
primarily staffed and managed by volunteer Rice graduate students.[109] The
pub's patrons have expanded beyond graduate students and other members of the
local community in recent years, and the pub has become a regular on the
annual "Best of Houston" published by the _Houston Press_ , being named the
"Best Place to Meet Single Women" in 2004.[110]

#### Willy's Pub[edit]

Willy's Pub is Rice's undergraduate pub run by students located in the
basement of the Rice Memorial Center. It opened on April 11, 1975, with Rice
President Norman Hackerman pouring the first beer. The name was chosen by
students in tribute to the university's founder, William Marsh Rice. After the
drinking age in Texas was raised in 1986, the pub entered a period of
financial difficulties and in April 1995, was destroyed in a fire. The space
was gutted but renovated and remains open.[111][112]

#### Rice Bikes[edit]

Rice Bikes is a full-service on-campus bicycle sale, rental, and repair
shop.[113] It originated in the basement of Sid Richardson College in February
2011. In 2012, Rice Bikes officially became the university's third student-run
business. Rice Bikes merged with a student-run bicycle rental business in
2013, and operations moved to the Rice Memorial Center in 2014.[114] In 2017,
the business moved to the garage of the Rice Housing and Dining department's
headquarters.[114]

Rice Bikes sells refurbished bicycles bought from students and functions as a
full bicycle repair shop.

#### Student-run media[edit]

Rice has a weekly student newspaper ( _The Rice Thresher_ ), college radio
station (KTRU Rice Radio), and campus-wide student television station (RTV5).
All three are based out of the RMC student center. In addition, Rice hosts
several student magazines dedicated to a range of different topics; in fact,
the spring semester of 2008 saw the birth of two such magazines, a literary
sex journal called _Open_ and an undergraduate science research magazine
entitled _Catalyst_.

_The Rice Thresher_[115] is published every Wednesday and is ranked by
Princeton Review as one of the top campus newspapers nationally for student
readership. It is distributed around campus, and at a few other local
businesses and has a website. The _Thresher_ has a small, dedicated staff and
is known for its coverage of campus news, open submission opinion page, and
the satirical Backpage, which has often been the center of controversy. The
newspaper has won several awards at Associated Collegiate Press conferences.

KTRU Rice Radio is the student-run radio station. Though most DJs are Rice
students, anyone is allowed to apply. It is known for playing genres and
artists of music and sound unavailable on other radio stations in Houston, and
often, the US. The station takes requests over the phone or online. In 2000
and 2006, KTRU won Houston Press' Best Radio Station in Houston.[116][117] In
2003, Rice alum and active KTRU DJ DL's hip-hip show won Houston Press' Best
Hip-hop Radio Show.[118] On August 17, 2010, it was announced that Rice
University had been in negotiations to sell the station's broadcast tower, FM
frequency and license to the University of Houston System to become a full-
time classical music and fine arts programming station. The new station, KUHA,
would be operated as a not-for-profit outlet with listener supporters.[119]
The FCC approved the sale and granted the transfer of license to the
University of Houston System on April 15, 2011,[120] however, KUHA proved to
be an even larger failure and so after four and a half years of operation, The
University of Houston System announced that KUHA's broadcast tower, FM
frequency and license were once again up for sale in August 2015. KTRU
continued to operate much as it did previously, streaming live on the
Internet, via apps, and on HD2 radio using the 90.1 signal. Under student
leadership, KTRU explored the possibility of returning to FM radio for a
number of years. In spring 2015, KTRU was granted permission by the FCC to
begin development of a new broadcast signal via LPFM radio. On October 1,
2015, KTRU made its official return to FM radio on the 96.1 signal. While
broadcasting on HD2 radio has been discontinued, KTRU continues to broadcast
via internet in addition to its LPFM signal.

RTV5 is a student-run television network available as channel 5 on campus.
RTV5 was created initially as Rice Broadcast Television in 1997; RBT began to
broadcast the following year in 1998, and aired its first live show across
campus in 1999. It experienced much growth and exposure over the years with
successful programs like "Drinking with Phil," a weekly news show, and
extensive live coverage in December 2000 of the shut down of KTRU by the
administration. In spring 2001, the Rice undergraduate community voted in the
general elections to support RBT as a blanket tax organization, effectively
providing a yearly income of $10,000 to purchase new equipment and provide the
campus with a variety of new programming. In the spring of 2005, RBT members
decided the station needed a new image and a new name: Rice Television 5. The
station has recently set about revitalizing its staff roster and campus image;
one of RTV5's most popular shows is the 24-hour show, where a camera and couch
placed in the RMC stay on air for 24 hours. One such show is held in fall and
another in spring, usually during a weekend allocated for visits by
prospective students. RTV5 has a video on demand site at rtv5.rice.edu.[121]

_The Rice Review_ , also known as R2, is a yearly student-run literary journal
at Rice University that publishes prose, poetry, and creative nonfiction
written by undergraduate students, as well as interviews. The journal was
founded in 2004 by creative writing professor and author Justin Cronin.[122]

_The Rice Standard_ is an independent, student-run variety magazine modeled
after such publications as _The New Yorker_ and _Harper's_. Prior to fall
2009, it was regularly published three times a semester with a wide array of
content, running from analyses of current events and philosophical pieces to
personal essays, short fiction and poetry. In August 2009, the _Standard_
transitioned to a completely online format with the launch of their redesigned
website, ricestandard.org. The first website of its kind on Rice's campus, the
_Standard_ now features blog-style content written by and for Rice students.
_The Rice Standard_ has around 20 regular contributors, and the site features
new content every day (including holidays).

_Open_ , a magazine dedicated to "literary sex content," predictably caused a
stir on campus with its initial publication in spring 2008. A mixture of
essays, editorials, stories and artistic photography brought Open attention
both on campus and in the Houston Chronicle.[123] The third and last annual
edition of _Open_ was released in spring of 2010.

##  Athletics[edit]

Main article: Rice Owls

Rice Stadium

Rice participates in NCAA Division I athletics and is part of Conference USA.
Rice was a member of the Western Athletic Conference before joining Conference
USA in 2005.[124] Rice is the second-smallest school, measured by
undergraduate enrollment, competing in NCAA Division I FBS football, only
ahead of Tulsa.[124]

The Rice baseball team won the 2003 College World Series, defeating Stanford,
giving Rice its only national championship in a team sport. The victory made
Rice University the smallest school in 51 years to win a national championship
at the highest collegiate level of the sport. The Rice baseball team has
played on campus at Reckling Park since the 2000 season. As of 2010, the
baseball team has won 14 consecutive conference championships in three
different conferences: the final championship of the defunct Southwest
Conference, all nine championships while a member of the Western Athletic
Conference, and five more championships in its first five years as a member of
Conference USA. Additionally, Rice's baseball team has finished third in both
the 2006 and 2007 College World Series tournaments. Rice now has made six
trips to Omaha for the CWS. In 2004, Rice became the first school ever to have
three players selected in the first eight picks of the MLB draft when Philip
Humber, Jeff Niemann, and Wade Townsend were selected third, fourth, and
eighth, respectively. In 2007, Joe Savery was selected as the 19th overall
pick.

The Owls in a game against the Texas Longhorns

In 2006, the football team qualified for its first bowl game since 1961,
ending the second-longest bowl drought in the country at the time. On December
22, 2006, Rice played in the New Orleans Bowl in New Orleans, Louisiana
against the Sun Belt Conference champion, Troy. The Owls lost 41-17. The bowl
appearance came after Rice had a 14-game losing streak from 2004–05 and went
1-10 in 2005. The streak followed an internally authorized 2003 McKinsey
report that stated football alone was responsible for a $4 million deficit in
2002. Tensions remained high between the athletic department and faculty, as a
few professors who chose to voice their opinion were in favor of abandoning
the football program. The program success in 2006, the "Rice Renaissance,"
proved to be a revival of the Owl football program, quelling those tensions.
David Bailiff took over the program in 2007 and has remained head coach.
Jarett Dillard set an NCAA record in 2006 by catching a touchdown pass in 13
consecutive games and took a 15-game overall streak into the 2007 season.

In 2008, the football team posted a 9-3 regular season, capping off the year
with a 38-14 victory over Western Michigan University in the Texas Bowl. The
win over Western Michigan marked the Owls' first bowl win in 45 years.

Rice Stadium also serves as the performance venue for the university's
Marching Owl Band, or "MOB." Despite its name, the MOB is a scatter band that
focuses on performing humorous skits and routines rather than traditional
formation marching.

Rice Owls men's basketball won 10 conference titles in the former Southwest
Conference (1918, 1935*, 1940, 1942*, 1943*, 1944*, 1945, 1949*, 1954*, 1970;
* denotes shared title). Most recently, guard Morris Almond was drafted in the
first round of the 2007 NBA Draft by the Utah Jazz. Rice recently named former
Cal Bears head coach Ben Braun as head basketball coach to succeed Willis
Wilson, fired after Rice finished the 2007-2008 season with a winless (0-16)
conference record and overall record of 3-27.

Rice has been very successful in women's sports in recent years. In 2004-05,
Rice sent its women's volleyball, soccer, and basketball teams to their
respective NCAA tournaments. In 2005-06, the women's soccer, basketball, and
tennis teams advanced, with five individuals competing in track and field. In
2006-07, the Rice women's basketball team made the NCAA tournament, while
again five Rice track and field athletes received individual NCAA berths. In
2008, the women's volleyball team again made the NCAA tournament. In 2011 the
Women's Swim team won their first conference championship in the history of
the university. This was an impressive feat considering they won without
having a diving team. In 2017, the women's basketball team, led by second-year
head coach Tina Langley, won the Women's Basketball Invitational, defeating
UNC-Greensboro 74-62 in the championship game at Tudor Fieldhouse. Though not
a varsity sport, ultimate frisbee is where Rice has seen the most success;
Rice's women's team, named Torque, won consecutive Division III national
championships in 2014 and 2015.[125]

Rice's mascot is Sammy the Owl. In previous decades, the university kept
several live owls on campus in front of Lovett College, but this practice has
been discontinued, due to public pressure over the welfare of the owls.

Rice also has a 12-member coed cheerleading squad and a coed dance team, both
of which perform at football and basketball games throughout the year.

## Alumni, faculty and presidents[edit]

Main article: List of Rice University people

As of 2011, Rice has graduated 98 classes of students consisting of 51,961
living alumni. Over 100 students at Rice have been Fulbright Scholars, 25
Marshall Scholars, 25 Mellon Fellows, 12 Rhodes Scholars, 6 Udall Scholars,
and 65 Watson Fellows, among several other honors and awards.

Rice's distinguished faculty and alumni consists of three Nobel laureates, two
Pulitzer Prize award winners, six Fulbright Scholars, 29 Alexander von
Humboldt Foundation Recipients, eight members of the American Academy of Arts
and Sciences, one member of the American Philosophical Society, 35 Guggenheim
Fellowships, 17 members of the National Academy of Engineering, seven members
of the National Academy of Sciences, five fellows of the National Humanities
Center, and 86 fellows of the National Science Foundation.

Alumni of Rice have occupied top positions in business, including Thomas H.
Cruikshank, the former CEO of Halliburton; John Doerr, billionaire and venture
capitalist; Howard Hughes; and Fred C. Koch.

In government and politics, Rice alumni include Alberto Gonzales, former
Attorney General; Charles Duncan, former Secretary of Energy; William P.
Hobby, Jr.; John Kline; George P. Bush; Josh Earnest, White House Press
Secretary for President Obama; Ben Rhodes, Deputy National Security Advisor
for President Obama and Annise Parker, the 61st Mayor of Houston.

Rice alumni who became prominent writers include Larry McMurtry, Pulitzer
Prize–winning author and Oscar-winning writer of the screenplay for _Brokeback
Mountain_ ; Joyce Carol Oates, who was once a doctoral candidate in English;
John Graves, author of _Goodbye to a River_ ; and Candace Bushnell, author of
_Sex and the City_ , who attended for three semesters.[126]

Notable entrepreneurs who graduated from Rice include Tim and Karrie League,
founders of the Alamo Drafthouse Cinema and Drafthouse Films; and Brock Wagner
and Kevin Bartol, founders of Saint Arnold Brewing Company.

In science and technology, Rice alumni include 14 NASA astronauts; Robert
Curl, Nobel Prize–winning discoverer of fullerene; Robert Woodrow Wilson,
winner of the Nobel Prize in Physics for the discovery of cosmic microwave
background radiation; David Eagleman, celebrity neuroscientist and _NYT_
bestselling author; and NASA former Apollo 11 and 13 warning systems engineer
and motivational speaker Jerry Woodfill.[127]

Rice athletes include Lance Berkman, Bubba Crosby, Harold Solomon, Frank Ryan,
Tommy Kramer, Jose Cruz, Jr., O.J. Brigance, Larry Izzo, James Casey, Courtney
Hall, Bert Emanuel, Luke Willson, Tony Cingrani, Anthony Rendon, and Leo
Rucka, as well as three Olympians[128] (Funmi Jimoh '06, Allison Beckford '04,
and William Fred Hansen '63).

  * Notable Rice University People
  * Annise Parker, class of 1978, 61st Mayor of Houston

  * Alberto Gonzales, class of 1979, former U.S. Attorney General

  * James Baker, U.S. Secretary of State and founding chair of the James A. Baker III Institute for Public Policy

  * Richard Smalley, professor of chemistry and physics, co-awarded 1996 Nobel Prize in Chemistry

  * Peggy Whitson, class of 1986, NASA astronaut

  * Lance Berkman, class of 1997, All-Star Major League baseball player, most notably for the Houston Astros

  * Howard Hughes, aviator, engineer, industrialist, film producer and director

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "William Marsh Rice and the Founding of Rice Institute". Rice University - Fondren Library. Retrieved  2012-10-15. 
  2. **^** As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "At a Glance". Rice University. Retrieved  December 15, 2015. 
  4. **^** "Rice Facts - Faculty and Staff". Rice University. Retrieved  2011-01-19. 
  5. **^** http://www.oir.rice.edu/At_a_Glance/Rice_University/
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "At a Glance - Fall 2015". Rice University. Retrieved  December 15, 2015. 
  7. **^** "Rice.edu". Rice.edu. Retrieved  2012-10-28. 
  8. **^** "Rice Facts - Campus". Rice University. Retrieved  2008-11-21. 
  9. **^** "Color palette". Rice University. Retrieved  April 13, 2017. 
  10. **^** "Best Colleges in Texas - College Rankings". _College Rankings and Reviews at Niche.com_. Retrieved  2016-05-09. 
  11. **^** Howard, Caroline. "The Best College In Every State". _Forbes_. Retrieved  2016-05-09. 
  12. **^** "MAP: The Most Selective College in Each State". _Business Insider_. Retrieved  2016-05-09. 
  13. **^** "Best Undergraduate Teaching, National Universities".  
  14. **^** "Spring 2017 Town Hall" (PDF). 
  15. **^** "Top institutions in materials science". Times Higher Education. Retrieved  2011-06-22. 
  16. **^** "Majors, Minors and Flexible Distribution Requirements".  
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Majors and Programs of Study". Rice University. Retrieved  2011-01-19. 
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Information for Graduate Students" (PDF). Rice University. Retrieved 2008-11-22. 
  19. **^** "Rice Facts - Academic Schools". Rice University. Retrieved  2008-11-22. 
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Honor Code". Rice University. Retrieved  2011-02-06. 
  21. **^** "The Princeton Review Rankings".  
  22. **^** "Marshall Scholarship Statistics".  
  23. **^** "Colleges and Universities with U.S. Rhodes Scholarship Winners".  
  24. **^** "Origins of Rice Space Science".  
  25. **^** "Famous Rice University alumni". _Houston Chronicle_. Retrieved  2017-11-01. 
  26. **^** "Famous Rice University Alumni". _Ranker_. Retrieved  2017-11-01. 
  27. **^** "The Short History of Race-Based Affirmative Action at Rice University". _The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education_. The JBHE Foundation (13): 36–38. Autumn 1996. Retrieved  December 25, 2014. 
  28. **^** Blum, Deborah (2010). _The Poisoner's Handbook: Murder and the Birth of Forensic Medicie in Jazz Age New York_. Penguin Books. pp. 14–6. ISBN 978-0-14-311882-4.  
  29. **^** "U.S. Naval Administration in World War II". HyperWar Foundation. 2011. Retrieved  September 29, 2011. 
  30. **^** Little, Carol Morris (1996). _A Comprehensive Guide to Outdoor Sculpture in Texas_. Austin, Texas: University of Texas Press. p. 248\. ISBN 0292-76034-5. Retrieved  September 6, 2012. 
  31. **^** Rice.edu, Sallyport Online Archived February 11, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  32. **^** "John F. Kennedy, "Moon" Speech - Rice Stadium, Houston, Texas, September 12, 1962". Er.jsc.nasa.gov. 1962-09-12. Retrieved  2012-10-28. 
  33. **^** [1] Archived May 8, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  34. **^** Coffee v. William Marsh Rice University, 408 S.W.2d 269
  35. **^** Rice Fact vs. Fiction #20 Archived February 11, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  36. **^** "Vision for the Second Century - Ten Points". Rice University. Retrieved  2008-11-22. 
  37. **^** "Rice University | News & Media". Media.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  38. **^** Rice to consider merger with Baylor College of Medicine - The Rice Thresher Archived March 3, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
  39. **^** "America's most beautiful college campuses", _Travel+Leisure_ (September 2011)
  40. **^** "Rice Official Athletic Site - Facilities". Riceowls.cstv.com. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  41. **^** The speech, "Why the Moon" is available on the Rice Webcast Archive
  42. **^** Es.Houstonisd.org Archived February 28, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.
  43. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Faculty Handbook: University Governance and Structure". Rice University. Retrieved  November 9, 2015. 
  44. **^** "Rice Students Enrollment and Demographics". Rice University. Retrieved  2014-10-22. 
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Carnegie Classifications - Rice University". Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Retrieved  2008-11-22. 
  46. **^** "Rice Facts - University Accreditation". Rice University. Retrieved  2008-11-22. 
  47. **^** "Rice Composition Exam". Rice University. 2012. Retrieved  6 March 2013. 
  48. **^** JonesGSM.Rice.edu Archived March 6, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  49. **^** "Rice University Department of Sociology". Ruf.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  50. **^** "Beyond Traditional Borders". Beyondtraditionalborders.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  51. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Rice University Common Data Set 2014-2015, Part B" (PDF). Rice University. 
  52. **^** See Demographics of the United States for references.
  53. **^** "Students & Scholars - Geographic Origin". Rice University.  
  54. **^** "Rice Honor Council". Rice University. Retrieved  2011-02-06. 
  55. **^** "Top institutions in materials science". Times Higher Education. 2010-03-11. Retrieved  2011-06-22. 
  56. **^** "The Richard E. Smalley Institute for Nanoscale Science and Technology". Cnst.rice.edu. 2010-01-15. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  57. **^** "CBEN Center for Biological and Environmental Nanotechnology". Cben.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  58. **^** "L A N P : Laboratory for Nanophotonics". Lanp.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  59. **^** "Digital Signal Processing at Rice". dsp.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-05-09. 
  60. **^** "Rice Quantum Institute". Rqi.rice.edu. 2009-08-07. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  61. **^** "RSI Rice Space Institute". Rsi.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  62. **^** "Rice University Institute of Biosciences and Bioengineering | Welcome". Ibb.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  63. **^** "Rice University The Ken Kennedy Institute for Information Technology | Welcome". Citi.rice.edu. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  64. **^** "BakerInstitute.org". BakerInstitute.org. Retrieved  2012-10-28. 
  65. **^** "Rice Alliance for Technology and Entrepreneurship named No. 1 university business incubator in the world". _www.yourkatynews.com_. Retrieved  25 December 2014. 
  66. **^** "Rice Gallery, Houston, Texas". Ricegallery.org. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  67. **^** "About : Kinder Institute for Urban Research". Retrieved  25 December 2014. 
  68. **^** "Welcome - Humanities Research Center". _hrc.rice.edu_. Retrieved  11 June 2017. 
  69. **^** "Rice University Center for the Study of Women, Gender, and Sexuality". _cswgs.rice.edu_. Retrieved  11 June 2017. 
  70. **^** "Rice University - 3CT…theoretical study across the disciplines". _3ct.rice.edu_. Retrieved  11 June 2017. 
  71. **^** "Rice University - Chao Center for Asian Studies". _chaocenter.rice.edu_. Retrieved  11 June 2017. 
  72. **^** "Common Data Set 2016-2017" (PDF). 
  73. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Common Data Set 2015-2016" (PDF). Rice University. 
  74. **^** "Common Data Set 2014-2015" (PDF). Rice University. 
  75. **^** "Common Data Set 2013-2014" (PDF). Rice University. 
  76. **^** "Rice University". _U.S. News & World Report_. 2017. 
  77. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  78. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  79. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  80. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  81. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  82. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  83. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  84. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  85. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Rice University - U.S. News Best Grad School Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 13 May 2017. 
  86. **^** "On top of the world again: Rice Alliance named No. 1 university business incubator". Houston Business Journal. June 24, 2014. Retrieved  June 7, 2017. 
  87. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings - Rice University". _U.S. News & World Report_. 2016. Retrieved November 9, 2015. 
  88. **^** "America's Best Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2017.  
  89. **^** "Kiplinger's Best College Values: College Rankings, 2015". _Kiplinger's Personal Finance_. December 2014.  
  90. **^** "Rice University - Rankings & Lists". The Princeton Review. 2012. Retrieved  2011-08-01. 
  91. **^** Monica Roberts. "TransGriot". Retrieved 25 December 2014. 
  92. **^** "Rice University - Rankings & Lists". The Princeton Review. 2011. Retrieved  2011-08-01. 
  93. **^** "The Top American Research Universities" (PDF). The Center for Measuring University Performance. 2007. Retrieved 2008-11-22. 
  94. **^** "Rice No. 3 on Consumer Digest's top values among private schools". Rice University. 2011. Retrieved  2011-06-19. 
  95. **^** "Rice a best buy in 2012 Fiske college guide". Rice University. 2011. Retrieved  2011-08-01. 
  96. **^** "Rice University News & Media | Rice University News & Media". Media.rice.edu. Retrieved  2012-09-28. 
  97. **^** "Leiden Ranking". Leiden Ranking. Retrieved  2012-09-28. 
  98. **^** "2011/2012". Leiden Ranking. Retrieved  2012-09-28. 
  99. **^** Leiden ranks Rice No. 1 for natural sciences and engineering, No. 6 for all sciences. News.rice.edu (2013-04-24). Retrieved on 2013-09-06.
  100. **^** "The Daily Beast's Colleges Rankings 2014". _The Daily Beast_.  
  101. **^** "Money's Best Colleges".  
  102. **^** "Zipcars offer campus a new transportation option". Media.rice.edu. Retrieved  2012-10-28. 
  103. **^** Rice University: "About the residential college system.". Retrieved April 23, 2011.
  104. **^** "College Assignments". Rice.edu. 2015-05-11. Retrieved  2017-05-09. 
  105. **^** Garza, Cynthia Leonor (March 15, 2007). "Rice undergrads share a sense of community". Houston Chronicle. 
  106. **^** Viren, Sarah (April 14, 2007). "Beer Bike's 50th bash lets good time roll at Rice: tradition that began in 1957 now integral part of school's social scene". Houston Chronicle. 
  107. **^** "Coffeehouse: 16 Years of Providing Rice with Society's Most Acceptable Drug". The Rice Thresher. November 17, 2006. 
  108. **^** University, Cornell (2016-06-10). "Rice University: Residential colleges". _Rice University_. Retrieved  2016-10-21. 
  109. **^** Kaplan, David (January 23, 1997). "Valhalla: Mythical Beings and Cheap Beer". Rice News & Media. 
  110. **^** "Houston - Best Of - Best Place to Meet Single Women - (2004)". The Houston Press. 2004.  
  111. **^** "Willy's Pub". Rice University. Retrieved  2008-11-22. 
  112. **^** "Willy's Pub, 1975 - 1995". The Thresher Online. April 21, 1995.  
  113. **^** "Rice Bikes". _rice.edu_.  
  114. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "History". _rice.edu_. Rice Bikes.  
  115. **^** "The Rice Thresher". The Rice Thresher. Retrieved  2012-10-28. 
  116. **^** "Houston Best of Houston - Best Radio Station - page 1". Houston-press.com. 2000-09-21. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  117. **^** "Houston - Best of Houston - Houston". Bestof.houstonpress.com. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  118. **^** "Houston Best of Houston - Best Hip-hop Radio Show - page 1". Houston-press.com. 2003-09-25. Retrieved  2010-01-22. 
  119. **^** Kever, Jeannie (August 16, 2010). "UH System board considers plan to buy Rice radio station". _Houston Chronicle_.  
  120. **^** FCC. "Correspondence for KTRU". Retrieved 18 April 2011. 
  121. **^** RTV5 - Rice Student Television, rtv5.rice.edu
  122. **^** R2 The Rice Review, r2mag.rice.edu
  123. **^** Rice sex magazine makes its virgin launch, chron.com
  124. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Merrick, Amy (20 September 2004). "Another Money-Losing Season". Wall Street Journal. Retrieved 15 February 2013. 
  125. **^** "News". _www.usaultimate.org_. Retrieved  11 June 2017. 
  126. **^** Adams, Patty (September 21, 2008). "Big Apple Babe: Candace Bushnell". Page Six Magazine. 
  127. **^** "Jerry Woodfill - Biological Background". SpaceActs.com. 2012. Retrieved  2013-08-04. 
  128. **^** "Future Owls". futureowls.rice.edu. Retrieved  2017-05-09. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Rice University**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Rice University Athletics website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Rice University  
  
---  
  
**Located in** : Houston, Texas  
  
Academics |

  * Susanne M. Glasscock School of Continuing Studies
  * Jesse H. Jones Graduate School of Business
  * Rice University School of Architecture
  * Wiess School of Natural Sciences
  * George R. Brown School of Engineering
  * Shepherd School of Music
  * Rice University School of Humanities
  * Rice University School of Social Sciences

|  
  
Research |

  * Connexions
  * Mid-InfraRed Technologies for Health and the Environment
  * Rice Alliance for Technology and Entrepreneurship
  * The Rice School
  * BioScience Research Collaborative

  
  
Athletics |

  * Rice Owls
  * Women's soccer
  * Women's swimming
  * Volleyball
  * Football
  * Baseball
  * Men's basketball
  * Women's basketball
  * Marching Owl Band
  * Rice Stadium
  * Tudor Fieldhouse
  * Reckling Park
  * Houston–Rice rivalry
  * Conference USA
  * Major League Baseball players who played for Rice University
  * Fox Sports Houston
  * Sammy the Owl

  
  
Student Life |

  * _Rice Thresher_
  * Night of Decadence
  * Residential colleges

  
  
People |

  * Alumni
  * Faculty and Staff
  * Presidents
  * William Marsh Rice
  * James A. Baker, Sr.
  * Edgar Odell Lovett

  
  
Facilities |

  * Fondren Library
  * Village Arcade

  
  
  * **Founded** : 1912
  * **Students** : 6,623
  * **Endowment** : 5.324 billion

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Southeastern Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Standard members |

  * Alabama
  * UAB
  * UAHuntsville
  * Arkansas
  * Auburn
  * Baylor
  * Catholic
  * UCF
  * Christopher Newport
  * Clemson
  * Delaware
  * Duke
  * East Carolina
  * Florida
  * Florida Atlantic
  * Florida Tech
  * FIU
  * Florida State
  * George Mason
  * George Washington
  * Georgetown
  * Georgia
  * Georgia Tech
  * Georgia State
  * Hampton
  * Houston
  * James Madison
  * Kentucky
  * UL Lafayette
  * LSU
  * Louisiana Tech
  * Maryland
  * UMBC
  * MIT
  * Memphis
  * Miami
  * Ole Miss
  * Mississippi State
  * New Orleans
  * Norfolk State
  * North Carolina A&T
  * North Carolina
  * NC State
  * Oklahoma
  * Old Dominion
  * Regina
  * Rice
  * Richmond
  * South Carolina
  * South Florida
  * Southern Miss
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Virginia
  * VCU
  * Virginia Tech
  * Virginia State
  * West Virginia
  * William & Mary

  
  
Affiliate members |

  * Idaho State
  * Ohio

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Conference USA  
  
---  
Full members |

  * Charlotte 49ers
  * Florida Atlantic Owls
  * FIU Panthers
  * Louisiana Tech Bulldogs/Lady Techsters
  * Marshall Thundering Herd
  * Middle Tennessee Blue Raiders
  * North Texas Mean Green
  * Old Dominion Monarchs/Lady Monarchs
  * Rice Owls
  * Southern Miss Golden Eagles/Lady Eagles
  * UAB Blazers
  * UTEP Miners
  * UTSA Roadrunners
  * Western Kentucky Hilltoppers/Lady Toppers

  
  
Men's soccer affiliate members |

  * Kentucky Wildcats
  * New Mexico Lobos
  * South Carolina Gamecocks

  
  
History |

  * Metro Conference
  * Great Midwest Conference
  * 2010–13 Conference USA realignment

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

City of Houston  
  
---  
  
Nickname: _Space City_  
  
Topics |

  * Architecture
  * Climate
  * Culture
  * Demographics
  * Economy
  * Geography
  * History
    * Timeline
  * Media
    * Newspapers
  * Transportation
  * Sister cities

|  
  
Attractions |

  * Art Car Parade
  * Bayou Place
  * Comicpalooza
  * Discovery Green
  * Downtown Aquarium
  * Free Press Summer Fest
  * The Galleria
  * Hermann Park
  * Houston Livestock Show and Rodeo
  * Houston Zoo
  * Kemah Boardwalk
  * Lee and Joe Jamail Skatepark
  * Memorial Park
  * Museum District
  * The Orange Show
  * San Jacinto Battleground State Historic Site
  * Space Center Houston
  * Splashtown
  * Texas Medical Center
  * Theater District
  * Waterwall Park

  
  
Business  
Districts |

  * Downtown
  * Uptown
  * Texas Medical Center
  * Greenway Plaza
  * Energy Corridor
  * Westchase
  * Memorial City
  * Greenspoint

_See also:List of companies in Houston_  
  
Communities |

  * Acres Homes
  * Addicks
  * Alief
  * Almeda
  * Bordersville
  * Boulevard Oaks
  * Braeburn
  * Braeswood Place
  * Brays Oaks
  * Blue Ridge
  * Chinatown
  * Clear Lake City
  * Denver Harbor
  * East Downtown
  * East End
  * East Houston
  * Fairbanks
  * Forum Park
  * Genoa
  * Glenbrook Valley
  * Gulfton
  * Harrisburg
  * Hiram Clarke
  * Houston Heights
  * Independence Heights
  * Inwood Forest
  * Kingwood
  * Link Valley
  * Lower Westheimer
  * Magnolia Park
  * Mahatma Gandhi District
  * Maplewood
  * Memorial
  * Meyerland
  * Midtown
  * Montrose District
  * Museum District
  * Neartown
  * Near Northwest
  * North Shore
  * Northside
  * Oak Forest
  * River Oaks
  * Riverside Terrace
  * Southwest Management District
  * South Park
  * Spring Branch
  * Sunnyside
  * Upper Kirby

Historic wards

    First Ward
    Second Ward
    Third Ward
    Fourth Ward
    Fifth Ward
    Sixth Ward  
  
Education |

State universities

    University of Houston
    University of Houston–Clear Lake
    University of Houston–Downtown
    Texas Southern University

Private universities

    Houston Baptist University
    Rice University
    University of St. Thomas

Community colleges

    Houston Community College
    Lone Star College
    San Jacinto College
    Lee College

K-12 school districts

    Houston ISD
    Aldine ISD
    Alief ISD
    Spring Branch ISD
    Clear Creek ISD
    Cy-Fair ISD
    Fort Bend ISD
    Galena Park ISD
    Humble ISD
    Katy ISD
    Pasadena ISD
    Spring ISD
    Huffman ISD
    New Caney ISD

_See:List of colleges and universities in Houston_  
  
Government |

  * City Council
  * Fire
  * Mayors
  * Police
  * Politics

  
  
Neighborhoods |

  * Afton Oaks
  * Brentwood
  * Briargrove Park
  * Briarhills
  * Broadacres
  * City Park
  * Clinton Park
  * Cloverland
  * Corinthian Pointe
  * Cottage Grove
  * Crestwood/Glen Cove
  * Eastwood
  * Garden Oaks
  * Glenshire
  * Highland Village
  * Houston Gardens
  * Idylwood
  * Kashmere Gardens
  * Knollwood Village
  * Lakes of Parkway
  * Larchmont
  * Magnolia Grove
  * Montrose
  * Morningside Place
  * Near North Side
  * Nottingham Forest
  * Old Braeswood
  * Parkway Villages
  * Pecan Park
  * Port Houston
  * Rice Military
  * Richmond Strip
  * Robindell
  * Royal Oaks Country Club
  * Sagemont
  * Scenic Woods
  * Settegast
  * Shadyside
  * Sharpstown
  * Shenandoah
  * Somerset Green
  * Southampton
  * Southbelt/Ellington
  * Southcrest
  * Southgate
  * Stablewood
  * St. George Place (Lamar Terrace)
  * Sunset Terrace/Montclair
  * Tanglewood
  * University Oaks
  * Village at Glen Iris
  * Walnut Bend
  * Westbury
  * West End
  * West Oaks
  * Westwood (subdivision)
  * Westmoreland
  * Willow Meadows
  * Willowbend
  * Windsor Village
  * Woodland Heights

  
  
Sports |

  * Houston Astros
  * Houston Dash
  * Houston Dynamo
  * Houston Rockets
  * Houston Texans
  * Houston Wrestling
  * Scrap Yard Dawgs

  
  
  * Harris County
  * Houston–The Woodlands–Sugar Land Metro
  * Texas
  * United States

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Private colleges and universities in Texas  
  
---  
  
  * Abilene Christian University
  * Amberton University
  * Arlington Baptist College
  * Austin College
  * Baylor University
  * Concordia University Texas
  * Dallas Baptist University
  * Dallas Christian College
  * East Texas Baptist University
  * Fisher More College
  * Graduate Institute of Applied Linguistics
  * Hardin-Simmons University
  * Houston Baptist University
  * Howard Payne University
  * Huston–Tillotson University
  * Jarvis Christian College
  * LeTourneau University
  * Lubbock Christian University
  * McMurry University
  * North American University
  * Northwood University
  * Our Lady of the Lake University
  * Paul Quinn College
  * Rice University
  * St. Edward's University
  * St. Mary's University
  * Schreiner University
  * Southern Methodist University
  * Southwestern Adventist University
  * Southwestern Assemblies of God University
  * Southwestern Christian College
  * Southwestern University
  * Texas Christian University
  * Texas College
  * Texas Lutheran University
  * Texas Wesleyan University
  * Trinity University
  * University of Dallas
  * University of Mary Hardin–Baylor
  * University of St. Thomas
  * University of the Incarnate Word
  * Wayland Baptist University
  * Wiley College

  
  
  * _**Private Junior Colleges:**_ Bay Ridge Christian College
  * Jacksonville College
  * Lon Morris College

  
  
Coordinates:  29°43′1″N 95°24′10″W﻿ / ﻿29.71694°N 95.40278°W﻿ / 29.71694;
-95.40278

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Rice_University&oldid=815927900"

Categories:

  * Rice University
  * Educational institutions established in 1891
  * Universities and colleges accredited by the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools
  * Universities and colleges in Houston
  * Universities and colleges in Texas
  * 1891 establishments in Texas
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2011
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from November 2015
  * All articles with vague or ambiguous time
  * Vague or ambiguous time from October 2010
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Català
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * پنجابی
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * ไทย
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 18 December 2017, at 03:26.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 28 ranking. Rice is No. 39 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

