

# School colors

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

**This article has multiple issues.** Please help **improve it** or discuss
these issues on the **talk page**. _(Learn how and when to remove these
template messages)_

|

|

This article **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(May 2016)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
|

The examples and perspective in this article **deal primarily with the United
States and do not represent aworldwide view of the subject**.  You may improve
this article, discuss the issue on the talk page, or create a new article, as
appropriate. _(December 2010)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
_(Learn how and when to remove this template message)_  
  
In the United States, **school colors** are the colors chosen by a school to
represent it on uniforms and other items of identification. Most schools have
two colors, which are usually chosen to avoid conflicts with other schools[1]
with which the school competes in sports and other activities. The colors are
often worn to build morale among the teachers and pupils, and as an expression
of school spirit.[2]

School colors are often found in pairs and rarely no more than trios, though
some professional teams use up to four colors in a set. The choice of colors
usually follows the rule of tincture from heraldry, but exceptions to this
rule are known.

Common primary colors include **orange** , **purple** , **blue** , **red** ,
and **green**. These colors are either paired with a color representing a
metal (often **black** , **brown** , **gray** (or **silver** ), **white** , or
**gold** ), or occasionally each other, such as **orange/blue** ,
**red/green** , or **blue/yellow**. Pairing two metals, such as
**black/white** , **silver/gold** , and especially **black/gold** , is also a
common practice. Finally, some American schools, in a display of patriotism,
adopt the national colors of **red, white, or blue**.[3]

In an effort to further establish identity and promote a standard, many
institutions often decree the use of specific shades of colors. **Maroon,**
generally regarded as a darker shade of red, is a common primary color.
Various shades of blue, from powder to Prussian, are also in use; a few
schools have adopted two different shades of blue for their colors, with the
darker shade serving as the primary. The shade of gold can vary greatly even
within an institution, from a vivid yellow to a more convincing old gold.

Black, white and gray are often used as neutral colors for sets that do not
otherwise adopt them. This practice is especially notable in basketball (where
home uniforms are often white) and professional baseball (where team colors
are often used as trim for white or gray uniforms).

## Uses[edit]

Most competitive teams keep two sets of uniforms, with one emphasizing the
primary color and the other emphasizing the secondary color. In some sports,
such as American football, the primary color is emphasized on home uniforms,
while uniforms for other sports, notably basketball, use the secondary or a
neutral color at home. This is done to avoid confusing the two schools'
colors. In addition, various groups that generate support for athletic teams,
including cheerleaders and marching bands, wear uniforms with the colors of
their school.

School colors have many non-athletic purposes as well. Members of a
university's community will often display them as a sign of support or spirit
for their particular institution. Likewise, during college or university
ceremonies, those schools which award an academic hood to their students will
generally abide by the American Council on Education guidelines and use the
school colors on the inside and the disciplinary colors on the outside velvet
trim (regardless of the ceremony, recipients of a degree have the right to
wear the hood thereafter). Some doctoral robes will also be in the colors of
the university which granted the degree. At many private schools, or more
traditional state schools, "school colours" are awards presented for
achievement in a subject or a sport - See Sporting colours.

British and Irish universities traditionally have an academic scarf in the
university's colors, usually long, woollen and patterned only with lengthwise
stripes of varying widths. At collegiate universities such as Oxford,
Cambridge, Durham and Lancaster, each college has its own colors and scarf.
Other non-collegiate universities such as Glasgow and Newcastle have scarf
colors for each faculty.

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Guide to the University of Chicago School Color History Collection 1894-1911". _www.lib.uchicago.edu_. Retrieved  2016-05-11. 
  2. **^** "Princeton University - Orange and black -- the history of Princeton's colors". _www.princeton.edu_. Retrieved  2016-05-11. 
  3. **^** "History of Penn Colors, University of Pennsylvania University Archives". _www.archives.upenn.edu_. Retrieved  2016-05-11. 

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=School_colors&oldid=805562910"

Categories:

  * School terminology
  * School colors

Hidden categories:

  * Articles needing additional references from May 2016
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Articles with limited geographic scope from December 2010
  * USA-centric
  * Articles with multiple maintenance issues

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Cebuano
  * فارسی
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * 日本語
  * Simple English
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 16 October 2017, at 05:25.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

