

# Scottish Terrier

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

"Scottie" redirects here. It is not to be confused with Scotty
(disambiguation).

Scottish Terrier

1.5 year old black Scottish Terrier  
  
---  
Common nicknames | Scottie, Aberdeenie  
Origin | Scotland  
| Traits  
---  
Weight | Male | 8.5–10 kg (19–22 lb)  
| Female | 8–9.5 kg (18–21 lb)  
Height | Male | 25 cm (9.8 in)  
| Female | 25 cm (9.8 in)  
Coat | double (hard wiry & soft undercoat)  
Colour | Black, Brindle, Wheaten  
Litter size | 1-6  
Life span | 11 to 13 years  
| Classification / standards  
---  
FCI | Group 3, Section 2 Small Terriers #73 | standard  
AKC | Terrier | standard  
ANKC | Group 2 (Terriers) | standard  
CKC | Group 4 - Terriers | standard  
KC (UK) | Terrier | standard  
NZKC | Terrier | standard  
UKC | Terriers | standard  
Notes | National dog of Scotland  
Domestic dog ( _Canis lupus familiaris_ )  
  
The **Scottish Terrier** (also known as the **Aberdeen Terrier** ), popularly
called the **Scottie** , is a breed of dog. Initially one of the highland
breeds of terrier that were grouped under the name of _Skye Terrier_ , it is
one of five breeds of terrier that originated in Scotland, the other four
being the modern Skye, Cairn, Dandie Dinmont, and West Highland White
Terriers. They are an independent and rugged breed with a wiry outer coat and
a soft dense undercoat. The First Earl of Dumbarton nicknamed the breed "the
diehard". The modern breed is said to be able to trace its lineage back to a
single female, named Splinter II.

They are a small breed of terrier with a distinctive shape and have had many
roles in popular culture. They have been owned by a variety of celebrities,
including the 32nd President of the United States, Franklin Delano Roosevelt,
whose Scottie "Fala" is included with FDR in a statue in Washington, D.C., as
well as the 43rd President George W. Bush. They are also well known for being
a playing piece in the board game _Monopoly_. Described as a territorial,
feisty dog, they can make a good watchdog and tend to be very loyal to their
family. Healthwise, Scottish Terriers can be more prone to bleeding disorders,
joint disorders, autoimmune diseases, allergies, and cancer than some other
breeds of dog and there is a condition named after the breed called Scotty
cramp. They are also one of the more successful dog breeds at the Westminster
Kennel Club Dog Show with a recent best in show in 2010.

## Contents

  * 1 Description
    * 1.1 Appearance
    * 1.2 Coat
    * 1.3 Temperament
  * 2 Health
    * 2.1 Cancer in Scottish Terriers
    * 2.2 Scottie cramp
    * 2.3 Craniomandibular osteopathy
    * 2.4 von Willebrand's disease
  * 3 History
  * 4 Famous Scotties and popular culture
  * 5 See also
  * 6 References
  * 7 External links

## Description[edit]

### Appearance[edit]

A black and a wheaten Scottish Terrier

A brindle Scottish Terrier

Scottish Terriers in three colours

Scottish Terrier

The Scottish Terrier is a small, compact, short-legged, sturdily-built terrier
of good bone and substance. They have a hard, wiry, weather-resistant coat and
a thick-set, cobby body which is hung between short, heavy legs. These
characteristics, joined with his very special keen, piercing, "varminty"
expression, and his erect ears and tail are salient features of the breed. The
Scottish Terrier's bold, confident, dignified aspect exemplifies power in a
small package. The eyes should be small, bright and piercing, and almond-
shaped not round. The color should be dark brown or nearly black, the darker
the better. The ears should be small, prick, set well up on the skull and
pointed, but never cut. They should be covered with short velvety hair.[1]

Height at withers for both genders should be roughly 25 cm (9.8 in), and the
length of back from withers to tail is roughly 28 cm (11 in). Generally a
well-balanced Scottie dog should weigh from 8.5 to 10 kg (19 to 22 lb) and a
female from 8 to 9.5 kg (18 to 21 lb). It is about 10 to 11 inches (25 to 28
cm) in height.[2]

### Coat[edit]

The Scottish Terrier typically has a hard, wiry outer coat with a soft, dense
undercoat. The coat should be trimmed and blended into the furnishings to give
a distinct Scottish Terrier outline. The longer coat on the beard, legs and
lower body may be slightly softer than the body coat but should not be or
appear fluffy.[1]

The coat colours range from dark gray to jet black and brindle, a mix of black
and brown. Scotties with wheaten (straw to nearly white) coats sometimes
occur, and are similar in appearance to the Soft-Coated Wheaten Terrier or
West Highland White Terrier.

### Temperament[edit]

Scotties are territorial, alert, quick moving and feisty, perhaps even more so
than other terrier breeds. The breed is known to be independent and self-
assured, playful, intelligent and has been nicknamed the 'Diehard' because of
its rugged nature and endless determination.[3] The "Diehard" nickname was
originally given to it in the 19th century by George, the fourth Earl of
Dumbarton.[4] The Earl had a famous pack of Scottish Terriers, so brave that
they were named “Diehards”. They were supposed to have inspired the name of
his Regiment, The Royal Scots, "Dumbarton’s Diehards".[4]

Scotties, while being described as very loving, have also been described as
stubborn.[5] They are sometimes described as an aloof breed, although it has
been noted that they tend to be very loyal to their family and are known to
attach themselves to one or two people.[6]

It has been suggested that the Scottish Terrier can make a good watchdog due
to its tendency to bark only when necessary and because it is typically
reserved with strangers, although this is not always the case.[3] They have
been described as a fearless breed that may be aggressive around other dogs
unless introduced at an early age.[7] Scottish Terriers were originally bred
to hunt and fight badgers. Therefore, the Scottie is prone to dig as well as
chase small vermin, such as squirrels, rats, and mice.[7]

## Health[edit]

Although black is the most traditional colour for a Scottie, Wheaten Scotties
can also be found, as shown in this picture of a Scottie puppy.

Two genetic health concerns seen in the breed are von Willebrand disease (vWD)
and craniomandibular osteopathy (CMO); Scottie cramp, patellar luxation and
cerebellar abiotrophy are also sometimes seen in this breed. Common eye
conditions seen in a variety of breeds such as cataracts and glaucoma can
appear in Scotties as they age. There are no specific conditions relating the
skin that affect the breed, but they can be affected by common dog related
conditions such as parasites and mange.[8] Scotties typically live from 11 to
13 years.[9]

### Cancer in Scottish Terriers[edit]

Scottish Terriers have a greater chance of developing some cancers than other
purebreds. According to research by the Veterinary Medical Data Program
(1986), six cancers that Scotties appeared to be more at risk for (when
compared to other breeds) are: (in descending order) bladder cancer and other
transitional cell carcinomas of the lower urinary tract; malignant melanoma;
gastric carcinoma; squamous cell carcinoma of the skin; lymphosarcoma and
nasal carcinoma.[10] Other cancers that are known to commonly affect Scotties
include mast cell sarcoma[11] and hemangiosarcoma.[12]

Research has suggested that Scottish Terriers are 20 times more likely to get
bladder cancer than other breeds[13] and the most common kind of bladder
cancer is transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder (TCC).[10] Dr. Deborah
Knapp of Purdue University School of Veterinary Medicine has commented "TCC
usually occurs in older dogs (average age 11 years) and is more common in
females (2:1 ratio of females to males)."[10] Symptoms of TCC are blood in the
urine, straining to urinate, and frequent urination—although owners noticing
any of these symptoms should also be aware that the same symptoms may also be
indicative of a urinary tract infection.[10]

The most common and effective form of treatment for TCC is Piroxicam, a non-
steroidal anti-inflammatory drug that "allows the cancer cells to kill
themselves."[10] In order to help prevent cancer in a dog, an owner should
ensure that their dog has minimal exposure to herbicides, pesticides, solvents
and cigarette smoke; use caution when treating dogs with some flea
medications; provide a healthy, vitamin-rich diet (low in carbohydrates, high
in vegetables) and plenty of exercise.[14]

### Scottie cramp[edit]

Scottie cramp is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder which inhibits the
dog's ability to walk. It is caused by a defect in the pathways in the brain
that control muscle contraction due to a low level of serotonin in the
body.[15] Typically symptoms only show when the particular dog is under some
degree of stress. The front legs are pushed out to the side, the back arches
and the rear legs overflex, causing the dog to fall should they be moving at
speed. The condition is not seizure related, and the dog remains conscious
throughout the event, with symptoms abating once the cause of the stress has
been removed.[16]

Vitamin E, Diazepam and Prozac have all been shown to be effective treatments
should it be required. Scotty cramp is found in other breeds of terrier,
including the Cesky Terrier.[16] "Episodic Falling", a condition found in
Cavalier King Charles Spaniels is considered to be similar to this
disorder.[17]

### Craniomandibular osteopathy[edit]

Also known as "Lion Jaw", "Westy Jaw" or "Scotty Jaw", this condition of
craniomandibular osteopathy is caused by excessive bone growth in the bottom
jaw, usually occurring between four and seven months of age. Like Scottie
Cramp, it is an autosomal recessive hereditary disorder, and can cause
discomfort to the dog when it attempts to chew.[18] The progression of the
condition usually slows down between eleven and thirteen months of age, and is
sometimes followed by a slow partial or complete regression.[19]

This condition has also been seen in other breeds of dog, such as the West
Highland White Terrier, Cairn Terrier, Boston Terrier,[20] as well as some
larger breeds such as Bullmastiffs.[21]

### von Willebrand's disease[edit]

Von Willebrand's disease is a hereditary bleeding disorder found in both dogs
and humans. It is caused by a lack of von Willebrand factor which plays a role
in the clotting process of blood. This can cause abnormal platelet function
and prolonged bleeding times. Affected dogs can be prone to nose bleeds, and
increased bleeding following trauma or surgery. There are three types of this
condition with Type I being the most common, while Type II and III being
rarer, but more severe. Type I von Willebrand's disease is relatively common
in the Scottish Terrier.[22]

Type I is more widespread in Doberman Pinscher, but is as common in the
Shetland Sheepdog as the Scottish Terrier. The condition appears in most
breeds to some extent, but other breeds with an increased risk include the
Golden Retriever, German Shepherd Dog, Basset Hound and Manchester
Terrier.[22]

## History[edit]

A Scotch Terrier, published in 1859

Initial grouping of several of the highland terriers (including the Scottie)
under the generic name _Skye Terriers_ caused some confusion in the breed’s
lineage. There is disagreement over whether the Skye Terriers mentioned in
early 16th century records actually descended from forerunners of the Scottie
or vice versa.[23] It is certain, however, that Scotties and West Highland
White Terriers are closely related—both their forefathers originated from the
Blackmount region of Perthshire and the Moor of Rannoch.[24] Scotties were
originally bred to hunt and kill vermin on farms and to hunt badgers and foxes
in the Highlands of Scotland.[25]

The actual origin of a breed as old as the Scottish Terrier is obscure and
undocumented.[26] The first written records about a dog of similar description
to the Scottish Terrier dates from 1436, when Don Leslie described them in his
book _The History of Scotland 1436–1561_. Two hundred years later, Sir Joshua
Reynolds painted a portrait of a young girl caressing a dog similar in
appearance to the modern-day Scottie.[4] King James VI of Scotland was an
important historical figure featuring in the Scottish Terrier's history. In
the 17th century, when King James VI became James I of England, he sent six
terriers—thought to be forerunners of the Scottish terrier—to a French monarch
as a gift.[6] His love and adoration for the breed increased their popularity
throughout the world.[23]

Many dog writers after the early 19th century seem to agree that there were
two varieties of terrier existing in Britain at the time—a rough-haired so-
called Scotch Terrier and a smooth-haired English Terrier.[26] Thomas Brown,
in his _Biological Sketches and Authentic Anecdotes of Dogs_ (1829), states
that "the Scotch terrier is certainly the purest in point of breed and the
(smooth) English seems to have been produced by a cross from him".[26] Brown
went on to describe the Scotch Terrier as "low in stature, with a strong
muscular body, short stout legs, a head large in proportion to the body" and
was "generally of a sandy colour or black" with a "long, matted and hard"
coat.[26] Although the Scotch Terrier described here is more generic than
specific to a breed, it asserts the existence of a small, hard, rough-coated
terrier developed for hunting small game in the Scottish Highlands in the
early 19th century; a description that shares characteristics with what was
once known as the Aberdeen Terrier and is today known as the Scottish Terrier.
In addition, the paintings of Sir Edwin Landseer and an 1835 lithograph
entitled "Scottish Terriers at Work on a Cairn in the West Highlands" both
depict Scottie type terriers very similar to those described in the first
Scottish Terrier Standard.[4]

Ch. Bapton Norman, a popular sire from 1914.

In the 19th century, the Highlands of Scotland, including the Isle of Skye,
were abundant with terriers originally known by the generic term "short-haired
terriers" or "little Skye Terriers."[27] Towards the end of the 19th century,
it was decided to separate these Scottish terriers and develop pure bloodlines
and specific breeds. Originally, the breeds were separated into two
categories: Dandie Dinmont Terriers and Skye Terriers (not the Skye Terrier
known today, but a generic name for a large group of terriers with differing
traits all said to originate from the Isle of Skye). The Birmingham England
dog show of 1860 was the first to offer classes for these groups of
terriers.[26] They continued to be exhibited in generic groups for several
years and these groups included the ancestors of today's Scottish Terrier.[26]
Recorded history and the initial development of the breed started in the late
1870s with the development of dog shows. The exhibition and judging of dogs
required comparison to a breed standard and thus the appearance and
temperament of the Scottie was written down for the first time.[4] Eventually,
the Skye Terriers were further divided into what are known today as the
Scottish Terrier, Skye Terrier, West Highland White Terrier and Cairn
Terrier.[27]

While fanciers sought to identify and standardize the breed and its
description through the late 19th century, the Scottish Terrier was known by
many different names: the Highland, the Cairn, Diehard, and most often, the
Aberdeen Terrier—named because of the abundant number of the dogs in the area
and because a J. A. Adamson of Aberdeen successfully exhibited his dogs during
the 1870s.[26] Roger Rough, a dog owned by Adamson, Tartan, a dog owned by Mr
Paynton Piggott, Bon Accord, owned by Messrs Ludlow and Bromfield, and
Splinter II owned by Mr Ludlow, were early winners of dog exhibitions and are
the four dogs from which all Scottish Terrier pedigrees ultimately began.[4]
It is often said that all present day Scotties stem from a single bitch,
Splinter II, and two sires. In her book, _The New Scottish Terrier_ , Cindy
Cooke refers to Splinter II as the "foundation matron of the modern Scottish
Terrier." Cooke goes on to say "For whatever reason, early breeders line bred
on this bitch to the virtual exclusion of all others. Mated to Tartan, she
produced Worry, the dam of four champions. Rambler, her son by Bonaccord,
sired the two founding sires of the breed, _Ch. Dundee_ (out of Worry) and
_Ch. Alistair_ (out of a Dundee daughter)"[28] Show champions on both sides of
the Atlantic descend from Splinter and her sires.[29]

Captain Gordon Murray and S.E. Shirley were responsible for setting the type
in 1879.[24] Shortly afterwards, in 1879, Scotties were for the first time
exhibited at Alexander Palace in England, while the following year they began
to be classified in much the same way as is done today.[30] The first written
standard of the breed was drafted by J.B. Morrison and D.J. Thomson Gray and
appeared in Vero Shaw's _Illustrated Book of The Dog_ , published in 1880; it
was extremely influential in setting both breed type and name. The standard
described the breed's colouring as "Grey, Grizzle or Brindle", as the
typically Black colouring of Scotties did not become fashionable or favoured
until the 20th century.[26]

Scottish Terrier circa 1915

In 1881 the "Scottish Terrier Club of England" was founded, being the first
club dedicated to the breed. The club secretary, H.J. Ludlow, is responsible
for greatly popularising the breed in the southern parts of Great Britain. The
"Scottish Terrier Club of Scotland" was not founded until 1888, seven years
after the English club.[30] Following the formation of the English and
Scottish clubs there followed several years of disagreement regarding the
breed's official standard.[30] The issue was finally settled by a revised
standard in 1930, which was based on four prepotent dogs. The dogs were Robert
and James Chapman's Heather Necessity, Albourne Barty, bred by AG Cowley,
Albourne Annie Laurie, bred by Miss Wijk and Miss Wijk's Marksman of Docken
(the litter brother of Annie Laurie).[4] These four dogs and their offspring
modified the look of the Scottie, particularly the length of the head,
closeness to the ground and the squareness of body. Their subsequent success
in the show ring led to them becoming highly sought after by the British
public and breeders. As such, the modified standard completely revolutionized
the breed.[4] This new standard was subsequently recognised by the Kennel Club
UK circa 1930.[30]

Scotties were introduced to America in the early 1890s, but it was not until
the years between World War I and World War II that the breed became popular.
The Scottish Terrier Club of America (STCA) was formed in 1900[31] and a
standard written in 1925.[4] The Scottish Terrier was recognized by the United
Kennel Club in 1934.[32] By 1936, Scotties were the third most popular breed
in the United States. Although they did not permanently stay in fashion, they
continue to enjoy a steady popularity with a large segment of the dog-owning
public across the world.[33] The STCA founded its Health Trust Fund (HTF) in
1995 which supports research on health issues in the breed.

Scottish Terriers have won best in show at the Westminster Kennel Club Dog
Show more than any other breed except for the Wire Fox Terrier, a total of
nine times.[34] These victories began in 1911 with a win by Ch. Tickle Em Jock
and include recent victories such as in 1995 when Ch. Gaelforce Post Script
(Peggy Sue) won, and in 2010 with a victory by Ch. Roundtown Mercedes Of
Maryscot.[35][36]

## Famous Scotties and popular culture[edit]

_Come Over Here!_ (1915) by Lilian Cheviot, showing the approximate
differences in sizes between the Scottish Terrier, the Welsh Terrier and the
Bulldog.

The Scottie and the German Shepherd are the only breeds of dog that have lived
in the White House more than three times.[37] President Franklin D. Roosevelt
was renowned for owning a Scottie named Fala, a gift from his distant cousin,
Margaret Suckley.[38] The President loved Fala so much that he rarely went
anywhere without him. Roosevelt had several Scotties before Fala, including
one named Duffy and another named Mr. Duffy. Eleanor Roosevelt had a Scottish
Terrier named Meggie when the family entered the White House in 1933.[38] More
recently, President George W. Bush has owned two black Scottish Terriers,
Barney and Miss Beazley. Barney starred in nine films produced by the White
House.[39]

Fala at the Franklin Delano Roosevelt Memorial ( _bottom left_ ), the only
Presidential dog so honoured.

Other famous people who are known to have owned Scotties include: Queen
Victoria, Eva Braun, Dwight D. Eisenhower, Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis, Ed
Whitfield, Rudyard Kipling and President of Poland, Lech Kaczynski.[40]
Actress Tatum O'Neal owned a Scottish Terrier. She was said to be so saddened
by her dog's death to cancer and old age that she relapsed into drugs.[41]

The Scottie is also renowned for being featured in the popular board game,
Monopoly, as a player token. When the game was first created in the 1930s,
Scotties were one of the most popular pets in the United States, and it is
also one of the most popular Monopoly game tokens, according to Matt Collins,
vice president of marketing for Hasbro.[42] In Disney's 1955 film _Lady and
the Tramp_ , a Scottish terrier named Jock is the friend of Lady, the American
Cocker Spaniel. A Scottish Terrier named Dulcinea is a scene-stealer in the
1998 Latin American novel Yo-Yo Boing! by Giannina Braschi.[43]

In May 2007, Carnegie Mellon University named the Scottish Terrier its
official mascot.[44] The Scottie had been a long-running unofficial mascot of
the university, whose founder's Scottish heritage is also honored by the
official athletic nickname of "Tartans".[45] Agnes Scott College in Decatur,
Georgia also uses the Scottie as their mascot.[46] The dog's image is a symbol
for the Radley brand of bags.[47] The amateur athletics organisation
Jogscotland has an anthropomorphic Scottish Terrier as its mascot.[48][49]

## See also[edit]

  * List of domesticated Scottish breeds
  * Scotty dog sign (radiological term)

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "STCA_Breed_Standard". Retrieved  19 July 2012. 
  2. **^** Cunliffe, Juliette (2002). _The Encyclopedia of Dog Breeds_. Parragon. p.  248\. ISBN 0-7525-8018-3. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Scottish Terrier". Dog-Breed-Facts.com. Retrieved  2008-08-13. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ "History of the Scottish Terrier". MacTavish Scotties. Retrieved  2008-08-13. 
  5. **^** "Terrier Dog Breeds". Buzzle.com. Archived from the original on 2015-02-17. Retrieved  2015-02-17. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Scottish Terrier". Dog Owner's Guide. Retrieved  2009-08-14. 
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Jones, Jewel R. "Profile of the Scottish Terrier". BarkBytes. Retrieved 2008-08-13. 
  8. **^** "Overview of serious health conditions in Scottish terrier breed". Scottish Terrier Dog.com. Retrieved  2010-02-18. 
  9. **^** Coile, Caroline (2005). _Encyclopedia of Dog Breeds_. Barron's Educational Series. p.  198\. ISBN 978-0-7641-5700-4. 
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Fry Owen, Carole. "CANCER: The Scottish Terrier's War On Terror". Tartanscottie.com. Retrieved 2008-08-13. 
  11. **^** Morrison, Wallace B. (1998). _Cancer in Dogs and Cats_ (1st ed.). Williams and Wilkins. ISBN 0-683-06105-4.  
  12. **^** "Protecting your dog from cancer". scottiecancer.com. Retrieved  2008-08-13. 
  13. **^** "Bladder Cancer in the Scottish Terrier". North of England Scottish Terrier Club. Archived from the original on June 6, 2008. Retrieved  2008-08-13. 
  14. **^** "10 steps to protect your pet from cancer". scottiecancer.com. Retrieved  2008-08-13. 
  15. **^** "What is Scotty Cramp?". Canine Inherited Disorders Database. 2001-10-30. Retrieved  2010-02-07. 
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Scottie Cramp". Cesky Terrier.co.uk. Retrieved  2010-02-07. 
  17. **^** Slatter, Douglas H. _Textbook of Small Animal Surgery_ (3rd ed.). W.B. Saunders Company. p.  1094\. ISBN 978-0-7216-8607-3. 
  18. **^** Vanderlip, Sharon Lynne (2001-08-31). _Scottish Terriers_. Barron's Educational Series. p. 81\. ISBN 978-0-7641-1639-1. Retrieved  2010-02-08. 
  19. **^** "Craniomandibular Osteopathy (CMO): Page 3". PetPlace.com. Retrieved  2010-02-18. 
  20. **^** Ettinger, Stephen J.; Feldman, Edward C. (1995). _Textbook of Veterinary Internal Medicine_ (4th ed.). W.B. Saunders Company. ISBN 0-7216-6795-3.  
  21. **^** Huchkowsky S (2002). "Craniomandibular osteopathy in a bullmastiff". _Can Vet J_. **43** (11): 883–5. PMC 339767 . PMID 12497967.  
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "What is von Willebrand's disease?". Canine Inherited Disorders Database. 2001-10-30. Retrieved  2010-02-18. 
  23. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ruben, Dawn. "Choosing a Scottish Terrier". Pet Place. Retrieved 2010-01-01. 
  24. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Scottish Terrier". Pet Planet. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  25. **^** "Scottish Terrier". Pedigree.com.au. Retrieved  2015-08-03. 
  26. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ Stamm, Miriam; Beauchamp, Rick (1998). _An Owner's Guide to Scottish Terriers_. TFH Publications. ISBN 978-0-7938-2786-2.  
  27. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Choosing a Cairn Terrier". Pet Place. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  28. **^** Harvil, Joseph. "Deconstructing the Diehard" (PDF). Great Scots Magazine. Retrieved 2010-01-01. 
  29. **^** Graham, Claribel. "The Origin of the Scottish Terrier". Scottish Terrier Club of America. Retrieved 2012-07-12. 
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Scottish Terrier: About Breed". PasOddy.com. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  31. **^** Barrie, Carswell. "History". Scottish Terrier Club of America. Retrieved 8 March 2015. 
  32. **^** "Scottish Terrier". _United Kennel Club_. Archived from the original on 16 April 2008. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  33. **^** "Guide to the Scottish Terrier Club of America Collection (1902-2005)". Retrieved  19 July 2012. 
  34. **^** "Best In Show Awards By Breed (1907-2009)". The Westminster Kennel Club. Retrieved  2010-02-17. 
  35. **^** "Scottie is Best Dog in U.S". Life. 26 February 1945. p. 65. Retrieved  2010-03-05. 
  36. **^** "Best in Show Winners". The Westminster Kennel Club. Retrieved  2010-02-17. 
  37. **^** "Scottish Terrier: History". PasOddy.com. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  38. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "FDR's Fala, World's Most Famous Dog". Bushy Barney. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  39. **^** "Barney's Home Page". The White House. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  40. **^** Huber, Vandra L. "Famous People Owned by Scottish Terriers" (PDF). Mcvan Scotties. Retrieved 2010-01-01. 
  41. **^** "Tatum O'Neal says her dog's death triggered her drugs arrest". Welt Online. 2008-06-04. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  42. **^** Ward, Julie (2006-09-18). "Move over, Rover: Hybrid labradoodle replaces Scottish terrier token". _USA Today_. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  43. **^** Braschi, Giannina (1998). _Yo-Yo Boing!_. Seattle: AmazonCrossing. pp. 50, 52, 53, 79, 118, 190. ISBN 161109089X. Retrieved  April 20, 2013. 
  44. **^** "Carnegie Mellon Family Will Get a Dog". Carnegie Mellon. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  45. **^** Schackner, Bill (2007-01-29). "CMU dogs it on picking a mascot". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  46. **^** "Photos from Alumnae Weekend 2008". _Agnes Scott College_. Archived from the original on 2010-05-27. Retrieved  2010-01-01. 
  47. **^** Craven, Neil (8 February 2009). "London pride at Radley". _The Mail on Sunday_. via HighBeam Research (subscription required). Retrieved  14 April 2012. 
  48. **^** "Jogscotland: Meet the Jog Crew". Jogscotland. Retrieved  2013-01-25. 
  49. **^** "Scottish Terrier - Dog Breed". Mypetzilla. Retrieved  2017-05-12. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Scottish Terrier**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Scottish Terrier at Curlie (based on DMOZ)

  * v
  * t
  * e

Terriers  
  
---  
Working breeds |

| Long  
legged |

  * Airedale Terrier
  * Bedlington Terrier
  * Border Terrier
  * Brazilian Terrier
  * Enkarterriko Billanuko
  * Fox Terrier (Smooth)
  * Gos Rater Valencià
  * Irish Terrier
  * Jagdterrier
  * Kaikadi
  * Kerry Blue Terrier
  * Lakeland Terrier
  * Majorca Ratter
  * Manchester Terrier
  * Old English Terrier
  * Parson Russell Terrier
  * Patterdale Terrier
  * Plummer Terrier
  * Ratonero Bodeguero Andaluz
  * Ratonero Murciano de Huerta
  * Soft-coated Wheaten Terrier
  * Welsh Terrier
  * Wire Fox Terrier

  
  
---|---  
Short  
legged |

  * Australian Terrier
  * Cairn Terrier
  * Cesky Terrier
  * Dandie Dinmont Terrier
  * Dutch Smoushond
  * Glen of Imaal Terrier
  * Jack Russell Terrier
  * Japanese Terrier
  * Miniature Fox Terrier
  * Norfolk Terrier
  * Norwich Terrier
  * Rat Terrier
  * Scottish Terrier
  * Sealyham Terrier
  * Skye Terrier
  * Sporting Lucas Terrier
  * Teddy Roosevelt Terrier
  * Tenterfield Terrier
  * West Highland White Terrier

  
  
Bull type breeds |

  * American Pit Bull Terrier
  * American Staffordshire Terrier
  * Boston Terrier
  * Bull Terrier
  * Bull Terrier (Miniature)
  * Irish Bull Terrier
  * Staffordshire Bull Terrier

  
  
Toy breeds |

  * Australian Silky Terrier
  * English Toy Terrier
  * Russkiy Toy
  * Toy Fox Terrier
  * Toy Manchester Terrier
  * Yorkshire Terrier

  
  
Miscellaneous |

  * American Hairless Terrier

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Dogs originating in Britain  
  
---  
Hounds |

  * Beagle
  * Bloodhound
  * Dumfriesshire Hound
  * English Foxhound
  * Greyhound
  * Harrier
  * Otterhound
  * Scottish Deerhound
  * Welsh Hound
  * Whippet

  
  
Gun dogs |

  * Clumber Spaniel
  * Curly Coated Retriever
  * Cocker Spaniel
  * English Setter
  * English Springer Spaniel
  * Field Spaniel
  * Flat-Coated Retriever
  * Golden Retriever
  * Gordon Setter
  * Labrador Retriever
  * Pointer
  * Sussex Spaniel
  * Welsh Springer Spaniel

  
  
Terriers |

| Working  
breeds |

  * Airedale Terrier
  * Bedlington Terrier
  * Black and Tan Terrier
  * Border Terrier
  * Cairn Terrier
  * Dandie Dinmont Terrier
  * Fox Terrier (Smooth & Wire)
  * Jack Russell Terrier
  * Lakeland Terrier
  * Manchester Terrier
  * Norfolk Terrier
  * Norwich Terrier
  * Parson Russell Terrier
  * Patterdale Terrier
  * Plummer Terrier
  * Russell Terrier
  * Scottish Terrier
  * Sealyham Terrier
  * Skye Terrier
  * Sporting Lucas Terrier
  * Welsh Terrier
  * West Highland White Terrier

  
  
---|---  
Toy breeds |

  * English Toy Terrier
  * Toy Manchester Terrier
  * Yorkshire Terrier

  
  
Bull types |

  * Bull Terrier
  * Bull Terrier (Miniature)
  * Staffordshire Bull Terrier

  
  
Herding dogs |

  * Bearded Collie
  * Border Collie
  * Cardigan Welsh Corgi
  * English Shepherd
  * Lancashire Heeler
  * Old English Sheepdog
  * Pembroke Welsh Corgi
  * Rough Collie
  * Shetland Sheepdog
  * Smooth Collie
  * Welsh Sheepdog

  
  
Other |

  * Bulldog
  * Bullmastiff
  * Cavalier King Charles Spaniel
  * English Mastiff
  * French Bulldog
  * King Charles Spaniel
  * Northern Inuit Dog

  
  
Types |

  * Fell Terrier
  * Longdog
  * Lurcher

  
  
Extinct |

  * Blue Paul Terrier
  * English Water Spaniel
  * English White Terrier
  * Norfolk Spaniel
  * North Country Beagle
  * Old English Bulldog
  * Old Welsh Grey Sheepdog
  * Paisley Terrier
  * Southern Hound
  * Talbot
  * Toy Bulldog
  * Toy Trawler Spaniel
  * Turnspit dog
  * Tweed Water Spaniel
  * Welsh hillman

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Scottish_Terrier&oldid=815456162"

Categories:

  * Dog breeds originating in Scotland
  * Terriers

Hidden categories:

  * Use British English from October 2011
  * Articles with 'species' microformats
  * Articles with DMOZ links
  * Good articles

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * 한국어
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Magyar
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Simple English
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tiếng Việt

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 14 December 2017, at 22:54.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

