

# Shadyside (Pittsburgh)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

|

This article **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(November 2010)_ _(Learn how and when
to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
For other places with the same name, see Shadyside.

Shadyside  
---  
Neighborhood of Pittsburgh  
  
Street in Shadyside, 2001  
  
Coordinates: 40°27′00″N 79°56′06″W﻿ / ﻿40.450°N 79.935°W﻿ / 40.450; -79.935  
Country | United States  
State | Pennsylvania  
County | Allegheny County  
City | Pittsburgh  
Area[1]  
 • Total | 0.921 sq mi (2.39 km2)  
Population (2010)[1]  
 • Total | 13,915  
 • Density | 15,000/sq mi (5,800/km2)  
  
**Shadyside** is a neighborhood in the East End of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania,
United States. It has two zip codes (15213 and 15232) and representation on
Pittsburgh City Council by the council member for District 8 (East Central
Neighborhoods). Shadyside is drawn from the name of a 19th-century
Pennsylvania Railroad station in the area, which was named for its shady
lanes.

Another neighborhood institution is Shadyside Hospital, a member of the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. Chatham University is located just
across the southern edge of the neighborhood in Squirrel Hill, along with
Pittsburgh Center for the Arts, which is also a part of Mellon Park. (A
portion of Mellon Park is located in Shadyside as well as the Point Breeze
neighborhood.)

In April 2014, Niche rated Shadyside the best neighborhood in Pittsburgh for
millennials (Pittsburgh ranked 15th among cities nationally in the same
study).[2]

## Contents

  * 1 Business districts
    * 1.1 Walnut Street
    * 1.2 Ellsworth Avenue
    * 1.3 S. Highland Avenue
  * 2 Residential Shadyside
  * 3 Schools
  * 4 Shadyside Action Coalition
  * 5 History
  * 6 Gallery
  * 7 See also
  * 8 References
  * 9 External links

## Business districts[edit]

|

This section **may containindiscriminate, excessive, or irrelevant examples**.
Please improve the article by adding more descriptive text and removing less
pertinent examples. See Wikipedia's guide to writing better articles for
further suggestions. _(January 2015)_  
  
---|---  
  
Shadyside is home to many upscale stores and boutiques, including Moda,
Williams-Sonoma, and White House Black Market. In Shadyside, businesses
(retail & restaurants) are located along three corridors: Walnut Street,
Ellsworth Avenue, and S. Highland Avenue. Given the compact nature of this
historic residential neighborhood, the three business corridors are all within
walking distance of one another.

### Walnut Street[edit]

Main article: Walnut Street (Pittsburgh)

On Walnut Street, there are more stores that belong to national chains,
including Gap (along with BabyGap, GapKids and GapBody), Apple, J.Crew, UBS,
Chico's, Victoria's Secret, Banana Republic, Talbots, and United Colors of
Benetton. Pittsburgh's oldest jewelry store, the 4th generation Henne
Jewelers, is also here, as are local restaurants, including Up Modern
Kitchen,[3] Cappy's, Mario's, William Penn Tavern, Pamela's Diner and La
Feria.

Pamela's Diner has been serving breakfast since 1980.[4] Pamela's gained
publicity when Gail Klingensmith and Pamela Cohen, the two co-owners of
Pamela's P&G Diners, made pancakes in 2009 for President Barack Obama, his
wife Michelle Obama and 80 veterans for a Memorial Day breakfast.[5]

The Jam on Walnut is a summer concert series that features local and regional
music concerts. The concerts are held on the last Saturday of each summer
month on the corner of Bellefonte and Walnut Street. Proceeds from beer sales
go to Cystic Fibrosis. Walnut Street also hosts the Shadyside Arts Festival, a
juried art show. This late summer/early fall street fair has been held on
Walnut Street for so long that the event has been renamed "The Art Festival on
Walnut Street."

### Ellsworth Avenue[edit]

Main article: Ellsworth Avenue

Ellsworth Avenue tends to have smaller, locally owned businesses, including
Eons (a vintage store), Gallerie Chiz (an art gallery), and beauty salons such
as Salon 5844, Capristo salon, Dante Salon and Mikel's. Ellsworth has a number
of restaurants such as Bites and Brews, Umi, Fajita Grill, and Soba. Ellsworth
also features two of Pittsburgh's gay and gay friendly bars, Spin (upstairs
colloquially known as "Nips") and 5801.

### S. Highland Avenue[edit]

Storefronts along South Highland Aveune.

S. Highland Avenue features several upscale design and furniture stores,
including Weiss House, Arhaus and Penhollows. Local restaurants and cafes
include Casbah, Mad Mex, Urban Tap, Noodle Head, Millie's Homemade Ice Cream,
and Adda Coffee and Tea House. Also on S. Highland is the entrance to East
Liberty's Eastside retail complex, which features Whole Foods, Fine Wine and
Good Spirits, Starbucks Coffee, Trek Bikes, and Eva Szabo Spa, as well as
local restaurants Dinette and Plum.

Work began to replace the S. Highland bridge in March 2013. Construction
shutdown both S. Highland Avenue and Ellsworth Avenue (which runs under the
bridge) until October 2013.[6]

## Residential Shadyside[edit]

Since the 1920s, residential Shadyside has been home to a mix of affluent
families, young professionals, artists, musicians, students, and apartment
dwellers. The residential areas of the neighborhood include Victorian mansions
along with modern apartments and condominiums. The neighborhood has a compact
layout, which prevents most houses from having garages. Public transportation
is available via Port Authority bus system; express busway stops are located
in the neighborhood on Negley Avenue (between Ellsworth and Centre avenues)
and on Ellsworth Avenue (at Shady Avenue).

## Schools[edit]

The Shadyside school district consists mainly of The Liberty School, a public
school; and private schools, Winchester Thurston School, The Ellis School, and
The University School.

The Liberty School is located in the Shadyside area of Pittsburgh, and
consists of grades pre-kindergarten to fifth. The school's colors are navy and
white and its mascot is the soaring eagle. It was built in 1872, and in 1911,
the industrial arts portion of the school was built. From the years 1911 to
1934, the first and older building instilled primary instruction- such as the
core subjects of learning- while the newer building offered woodworking, home
economics, and other courses. In 1934, the eldest building was completely torn
down to further renovate the school. Therefore, the newest building was
attached to the 1911 building, consisting of both classrooms and an
auditorium. Later on in the 1990s, playgrounds were constructed on both sides
of the buildings providing more recreation for the students.[7]

Liberty is a "magnet school," which merely means it is a public school with
specialized courses and therefore draws in a diverse group of students. [8]

Shadyside in winter

Liberty's approximate student enrollment is 375 students per school year, with
a student to teacher ratio of about 16:1. The percentage of males and females
is fairly equal, with 45% male and 55% female.[9]

The Winchester Thurston School is a private co-ed institution located in
Shadyside. It has two campuses-the North Hills campus in Allison Park and the
city campus in Shadyside. [10][ _third-party source needed_ ]

The Ellis School is an independent school for girls ages three through grade
twelve in Shadyside, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. It was established in 1916 by
Sara Frazer Ellis.[11][ _third-party source needed_ ]

The Ellis School and the Winchester Thurston School are both part of the
Pittsburgh Consortium of Independent Schools (PCIS) which is a non-profit
organization consisting of these and eleven other independent schools in the
area.[12]

Shady Side Academy, though founded in the neighborhood in 1883, is no longer
located in the Shadyside neighborhood. The school originally occupied the
present-day site of the Winchester Thurston School as an all-male day school,
but relocated its Senior and Middle School campuses to suburban Fox Chapel in
the 1920s. Its Junior School campus, however, remains in the city in nearby
Point Breeze.

## Shadyside Action Coalition[edit]

|

This section **reads likea press release or a news article** or **is entirely
based onroutine coverage**.  Please expand this article with properly sourced
content to meet Wikipedia's quality standards, event notability guideline, or
encyclopedic content policy. _(January 2015)_  
  
---|---  
  
The Shadyside Action Coalition, known colloquially as SAC, is a community
organization. This not-for-profit organization was formed in 1973.[13]
According to their website, their goals are to, "preserve values and laws of
this community"; the issues they have chosen to focus on are "neighborhood
safety, planning and zoning, parking, quality of life, preserving the
character of the community, and being actively involved with the future
development of our community".[14] Composed of 34 organizations, book clubs,
and churches, SAC has "sought to be the instrument through which Shadyside
could control its own destiny, mainly by generating sufficient power to
influence forces such as government planners, larger property investors,
banks, and school boards".[15]

Within the larger Shadyside Action Coalition, there are six different
committees: community networking, fundraising, historic Shadyside, membership,
public safety, and zoning.[16] Community networking's stated goal is to,
"maintain collaborative relationships with adjacent community groups to work
on shared projects along borders".[17] They are involved with liaisons in many
other neighborhoods around Pittsburgh. These neighborhoods include East
Liberty, North Point Breeze, South Point Breeze, Bloomfield, Friendship,
Oakland, and Squirrel Hill. Projects that are being worked on as of 2010 are
the Baum Centre Initiative and Bakery Row.

The Baum Centre Initiative is a project with the goal of, "developing a
cohesive, renewed, and thriving Baum-Centre Corridor".[18] The Baum-Centre
Corridor is a section of UPMC Shadyside, and there has been much debate
surrounding this project. Concerns include whether this project constitutes an
expansion of UPMC Shadyside or if it is a transformation of the building that
is already there.[19] The project has encountered some legal and legislative
problems.[20]

Bakery Row is a collaborative effort with East Liberty Development Inc. and
SAC to develop the "Bakery Row" section of Penn Ave. Seven districts converge
at Bakery Row: East Liberty. Homewood, North Point Breeze, South Point Breeze,
Squirrel Hill, Shadyside, and Larimer. Plans include development of Penn and
Shady, the resurrection of an East Liberty Station, reopening the Reizenstein
Middle School, redevelopment of buildings in "Bakery Square",[21] creating
more pedestrian-friendly transportation, as well as more "transit-oriented"
transportation.

Other projects the community networking committee has worked on include the
Pedestrian Bridge, the Doc Economou project, UPMC's Cromisa halfway house,
Chipotle Mexican Grill, Fidelity Bank on Centre, Hertz on Baum and Bobby
Rahal's on Baum.[18]

SAC has one annual fundraiser- the house tour. According to their website all
of the money raised through this event is put into the community. In 2010 the
funds were utilized for scholarships for summer arts camps at Shadyside Center
For the Arts, bike racks, block watch signs and safety programs, an
architect/zoning real estate attorney opinion about a neighborhood issue,
"Welcome to the Neighborhood" packets for new people in the area, and the
creation of a quarterly newsletter.[22] In 2010, for the 32nd annual house
tour, people went through eight homes on a self-guided tour. Transportation
from each private home was provided by Molly's Trolley's.[23]

## History[edit]

Shadyside was originally named after a local farm, and was annexed to
Pittsburgh in 1868.[24]

## Gallery[edit]

  * Sellers House, built in 1858, at 400 Shady Avenue.

  * Shadyside Presbyterian Church, built in 1889, at 5121 Westminster Place (at the corner of Amberson Avenue and Westminster Place).

  * Bindley Hardware Company Building, built in 1903, at 401 Amberson Avenue.

  * Rodef Shalom Temple, built in 1906, at 4905 5th Avenue.

  * Highland Towers Apartments, built in 1913, at 340 South Highland Avenue.

  * Negley-Gwinner-Harter House, built in 1870 and 1871, at 5061 Fifth Avenue.

  * Moreland-Hoffstot House, built in 1914, at 5057 Fifth Avenue.

  * Hunt Armory, built in 1916, at 324 Emerson Street.

  * Harvey Childs House, built in 1896, at 718 Devonshire Street.

  * Sunnyledge, built in 1886, at 5124 Fifth Avenue.

  * Retailers along Walnut Street.

  * The Henne Jewelers storefront in 2005.

## See also[edit]

  * Pittsburgh portal

  * List of Pittsburgh neighborhoods

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "PGHSNAP 2010 Raw Census Data by Neighborhood". Pittsburgh Department of City Planning PGHSNAP Utility. 2012. Retrieved  28 June 2013.  External link in `|publisher=` (help)
  2. **^** Dill, Kathryn. "Best cities and neighborhoods for millennials", _Forbes,_ 14 April 2014. Retrieved on 22 April 2014.
  3. **^** http://www.upkitchen.com/
  4. **^** [1] Archived January 19, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.
  5. **^** Balingit, Moriah (May 26, 2009). "President flips over Pamela's flapjacks". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  6. **^** "South Highland Avenue Bridge to reopen Oct. 21". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. September 27, 2013. Retrieved  19 November 2013. 
  7. **^** "Our History". 2009. Retrieved  December 1, 2010. 
  8. **^** "General Information". 2009. Retrieved  December 1, 2010. 
  9. **^** "Ul Liberty Elementary School". Public School Review LLC. Retrieved  December 1, 2010. 
  10. **^** "About Us". 2008. Retrieved  December 1, 2010. 
  11. **^** "Ellis at a Glance". 2008. Retrieved  December 1, 2010. 
  12. **^** Pittsburgh Metroguide. Pittsburgh Metroguide (2007-09-19). Retrieved on 2013-07-17.
  13. **^** Roy Lubove (1996). _Twentieth Century Pittsburgh_. University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN 978-0-8229-5566-5. Retrieved  2010-11-17. 
  14. **^** "About Us". 2009. Retrieved  November 14, 2010. 
  15. **^** Roy Lubove (1996). _Twentieth Century Pittsburgh_. University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN 978-0-8229-5566-5. Retrieved  November 17, 2010. 
  16. **^** "committees". 2009. Retrieved  2010-11-14. 
  17. **^** "Community Networking Committee". 2009. Retrieved  2010-11-14. 
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Community Networking Committee". 2009. Retrieved  November 14, 2010. 
  19. **^** "Public review: UPMC's Shadyside care center deserves an airing". Retrieved  November 14, 2010. 
  20. **^** Rich Lord and Diana Nelson Jones (2010-11-25). "UPMC to open disputed facility". Pittsburgh Post Gazette. Retrieved November 14, 2010. 
  21. **^** Patricia Lowry (October 3, 2006). "Workshop to handle rise of ideas for 'Bakery Row'". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Retrieved November 14, 2010. 
  22. **^** "Annual House Tour Information". 2009. Retrieved  November 17, 2010. 
  23. **^** "8 homes on Shadyside House Tour". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. October 6, 2010. Retrieved  November 20, 2010. 
  24. **^** Bloom, Albert W. (Jan 14, 1953). "Pittsburgh today made up of many villages". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. p.  23. Retrieved 2 December 2015. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Shadyside, Pittsburgh**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Interactive Pittsburgh Neighborhoods Map
  * Shadyside Action Coalition
  * ThinkShadyside.com
  * Free Wireless Shadyside
  * Winchester Thurston School
  * The Ellis School
  * Shadyside Music Scene -Pittsburgh Music History

  * v
  * t
  * e

Municipalities and communities of Pittsburgh in Allegheny County,
Pennsylvania, United States  
  
---  
Sections and  
Neighborhoods |

| Downtown |

  * Central Business District
    * Chinatown (historic)
    * Cultural District
  * Strip District
  * Uptown

  
  
---|---  
North Side / North Hills |

  * Allegheny Center
  * Allegheny West
  * Brighton Heights
  * California-Kirkbride
  * Central Northside
    * Mexican War Streets
  * Chateau
  * East Allegheny
  * Fineview
  * Manchester
  * Marshall-Shadeland
  * North Shore
  * Northview Heights
  * Perry North
  * Perry South
  * Spring Garden
  * Spring Hill–City View
  * Summer Hill
  * Troy Hill
    * Washington's Landing

  
  
South Side / South Hills |

  * Allentown
  * Arlington
  * Arlington Heights
  * Beechview
  * Beltzhoover
  * Bon Air
  * Brookline
  * Carrick
  * Hays
  * Knoxville
  * Lincoln Place
  * Mount Oliver
  * Mount Washington
    * Chatham Village
  * New Homestead
  * Overbrook
  * St. Clair
  * Southshore
  * South Side Flats
  * South Side Slopes

  
  
West End |

  * Banksville
  * Chartiers
  * Crafton Heights
  * Duquesne Heights
  * East Carnegie
  * Elliott
  * Esplen
  * Fairywood
  * Oakwood
  * Ridgemont
  * Sheraden
  * Westwood
  * Windgap

  
  
East End |

  * Bloomfield
  * Central Lawrenceville
  * Central Oakland
  * Crawford-Roberts
  * East Hills
  * East Liberty
  * Friendship
  * Garfield
  * Glen Hazel
  * Greenfield
    * Four Mile Run
  * Hazelwood
  * Highland Park
  * Homewood North
  * Homewood South
  * Homewood West
  * Larimer
  * Lincoln–Lemington–Belmar
  * Lower Lawrenceville
  * Middle Hill
  * Bedford Dwellings
  * Morningside
  * North Oakland
  * North Point Breeze
  * Point Breeze
  * Polish Hill
  * Regent Square
  * Shadyside
  * South Oakland
    * Panther Hollow
  * Squirrel Hill North
  * Squirrel Hill South
    * Summerset at Frick Park
  * Stanton Heights
  * Swisshelm Park
  * Terrace Village
  * Upper Hill
  * Upper Lawrenceville
  * West Oakland

  
  
Former  
Municipalities |

| Cities |

  * Allegheny City

  
  
---|---  
Boroughs |

  * Allentown
  * Beechview
  * Beltzhoover
  * Birmingham
  * Brushton
  * Carrick
  * East Birmingham
  * Elliott
  * Esplen
  * Hays
  * Knoxville
  * Lawrenceville
  * Manchester
  * Monongahela
  * Montooth
  * Mount Washington
  * Northern Liberties
  * Ormsby
  * Overbrook
  * St. Clair (1870-1872)
  * St. Clair (1906-1923)
  * Sheraden
  * South Pittsburgh
  * Spring Garden
  * Temperanceville
  * Union Borough
  * West Liberty
  * West Pittsburgh
  * Westwood

  
  
Townships |

  * Chartiers
  * Collins
  * Liberty
  * Lower St. Clair
  * McClure
  * Oakland
  * Peebles
  * Pitt
  * St. Clair
  * Sterrett
  * Union Township

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Shadyside_(Pittsburgh)&oldid=816823831"

Categories:

  * Neighborhoods in Pittsburgh
  * Economy of Pittsburgh
  * Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmarks
  * Shopping districts and streets in the United States

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 errors: external links
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Articles needing additional references from November 2010
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Articles with too many examples
  * All articles lacking reliable references
  * Articles lacking reliable references from January 2015
  * Articles with a promotional tone from January 2015
  * All articles with a promotional tone

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 23 December 2017, at 23:20.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

