

# Sharia

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

"Islamic law" redirects here. For Islamic jurisprudence, see Fiqh.

Not to be confused with Saria (disambiguation), Shahriyar (disambiguation),
Shara (disambiguation), or Shariyah (disambiguation).

|

This article **needs attention from an expert in Islam**.  Please add a
_reason_ or a _talk_ parameter to this template to explain the issue with the
article. WikiProject Islam may be able to help recruit an expert. _(January
2017)_  
  
---|---  
Part of a series on  
---  
Islam  
  
Beliefs

  * Oneness of God

  * Prophets
  * Revealed books

  * Angels
  * Predestination

  * Day of Resurrection

  
  
Practices

  * Profession of faith
  * Prayer

  * Fasting
  * Alms-giving
  * Pilgrimage

  
  
Texts and laws

  * _Quran_
  * _Sunnah_
  * _Hadith_

  * _Sharia_ (law)
  * _Fiqh_ (jurisprudence)

  * _Kalam_ (dialectic)

  
  
History

  * Timeline
  * Muhammad

  * _Ahl al-Bayt_
  * _Sahabah_
  * _Rashidun_

  * Imamate
  * Caliphate
  * Spread of Islam

  
  
Culture and society

  * Calendar
  * Festivals
  * Academics
  * Art
  * Moral teachings
  * Children
  * Denominations
  * Feminism
  * Women
  * Madrasa
  * Mosque
  * Philosophy
  * Politics
  * Proselytizing
  * Animals
  * LGBT
  * Science
  * Demographics
  * Economics
  * Finance
  * Social welfare

  
  
Related topics

  * Criticism of Islam
  * Islam and other religions

  * Islamism
  * Islamophobia

  * Glossary

  
  
  * Islam portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
Part of the Politics series  
---  
Basic forms of government  
Power structure  
| Separation  
---  
  
  * Associated state
  * Dominion
  * Chiefdom

  
Federalism  
  
  * Federation
  * Confederation
  * Devolution

  
Integration  
  
  * Empire
  * Hegemony
  * Unitary state

  
Administrative division  
Power source  
| Democracy  
_power of many_  
---  
  
  * Direct
  * Representative
  * Liberal
  * Social
  * Demarchy
  * _others_

  
Oligarchy  
_power of few_  
  
  * Aristocracy
  * Plutocracy
  * Kraterocracy
  * Stratocracy
  * Timocracy
  * Meritocracy
  * Technocracy
  * Geniocracy
  * Noocracy
  * Kritarchy
  * Particracy
  * Ergatocracy
  * Netocracy

  
Autocracy  
_power of one_  
  
  * Despotism
  * Dictatorship
  * Military dictatorship

  
Others  
  
  * Anocracy
  * Anarchy
  * Theocracy

  
Power ideology  
| Monarchy vs. Republic  
_socio-political ideologies_  
---  
  
  * Absolute
  * Legalist  

  * Constitutional  

  * Parliamentary
  * Directorial
  * Semi-presidential
  * Presidential

  
Authoritarian vs. Libertarian  
_socio-economic ideologies_  
  
  * Tribalism
  * Despotism
  * Feudalism
  * Colonialism
  * Minarchism
  * Distributism
  * Anarchism
  * Socialism
  * Communism
  * Totalitarianism

  
Global vs. Local  
_geo-cultural ideologies_  
  
  * Commune
  * City-state
  * National government
  * Intergovernmental organisation
  * World government

  
Politics portal  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
**Sharia** , **Sharia law** , or **Islamic law** (Arabic: _شريعة_ ‎ (IPA:
[ʃaˈriːʕa])) is the religious law forming part of the Islamic tradition.[1] It
is derived from the religious precepts of Islam, particularly the Quran and
the Hadith. In Arabic, the term _sharīʿah_ refers to God's immutable divine
law and is contrasted with _fiqh_ , which refers to its human scholarly
interpretations.[2][3][4] The manner of its application in modern times has
been a subject of dispute between Muslim traditionalists and reformists.[1]

Traditional theory of Islamic jurisprudence recognizes four sources of sharia:
the Quran, _sunnah_ (authentic hadith), _qiyas_ (analogical reasoning), and
_ijma_ (juridical consensus).[5] Different legal schools—of which the most
prominent are Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, Hanbali and Jafari—developed
methodologies for deriving sharia rulings from scriptural sources using a
process known as _ijtihad_.[2][3] Traditional jurisprudence distinguishes two
principal branches of law, _ʿibādāt_ (rituals) and _muʿāmalāt_ (social
relations), which together comprise a wide range of topics.[2][4] Its rulings
assign actions to one of five categories: mandatory, recommended, neutral,
abhorred, and prohibited.[2][3][4] Thus, some areas of sharia overlap with the
Western notion of law while others correspond more broadly to living life in
accordance with God’s will.[3]

Historically, sharia was interpreted by independent jurists (muftis). Their
legal opinions (fatwas) were taken into account by ruler-appointed judges who
presided over _qāḍī's_ courts, and by _maẓālim_ courts, which were controlled
by the ruler's council and administered criminal law.[2][3][4] Ottoman rulers
achieved additional control over the legal system by promulgating their own
legal code ( _qanun_ ) and turning muftis into state employees.[3] Non-Muslim
(dhimmi) communities had legal autonomy, except in cases of interconfessional
disputes, which fell under jurisdiction of qadi's courts.[3]

In the modern era, sharia-based criminal laws have been widely replaced by
statutes inspired by European models.[3][6] Judicial procedures and legal
education in the Muslim world were likewise brought in line with European
practice.[3] While the constitutions of most Muslim-majority states contain
references to sharia, its classical rules were largely retained only in
personal status (family) laws.[3] Legislative bodies which codified these laws
sought to modernize them without abandoning their foundations in traditional
jurisprudence.[3][7] The Islamic revival of the late 20th century brought
along calls by Islamist movements for full implementation of sharia, including
reinstatement of _hudud_ corporal punishments, such as stoning.[3][7] In some
cases, this resulted in traditionalist legal reform,[note 1] while other
countries witnessed juridical reinterpretation of sharia advocated by
progressive reformers.[3][7][9]

The role of sharia has become a contested topic around the world. Attempts to
impose it on non-Muslims have caused intercommunal violence in Nigeria[10][11]
and may have contributed to the breakup of Sudan.[3] Some Muslim-minority
countries in Asia (such as Israel[12]), Africa, and Europe recognize the use
of sharia-based family laws for their Muslim populations.[13][14] Some
jurisdictions in North America have passed bans on use of sharia, framed as
restrictions on religious or foreign laws.[15] There are ongoing debates as to
whether sharia is compatible with secular forms of government, human rights,
freedom of thought, and women's rights.[16][17][18]

## Contents

  * 1 Etymology and usage
    * 1.1 Contemporary usage
    * 1.2 Etymology
    * 1.3 Use in religious texts
  * 2 Historical origins
  * 3 Traditional jurisprudence ( _fiqh_ )
    * 3.1 Principles of jurisprudence ( _uṣūl al-fiqh_ )
      * 3.1.1 Sources of sharia
      * 3.1.2 Ijtihad
      * 3.1.3 Decision types ( _aḥkām_ )
      * 3.1.4 Aims of sharia and public interest
    * 3.2 Branches of law
    * 3.3 Schools of law
    * 3.4 Social context
  * 4 Application
    * 4.1 Application by country
    * 4.2 Enforcement
    * 4.3 Legal and court proceedings
      * 4.3.1 Criminal cases
      * 4.3.2 Civil cases
      * 4.3.3 Diya
  * 5 Support and opposition
    * 5.1 Support
      * 5.1.1 Extremism
    * 5.2 Opposition
  * 6 Criticism
    * 6.1 Compatibility with democracy
    * 6.2 Human rights
    * 6.3 Freedom of speech
    * 6.4 Freedom of thought, conscience and religion
    * 6.5 LGBT rights
    * 6.6 Women
      * 6.6.1 Domestic violence
      * 6.6.2 Personal status laws and child marriage
      * 6.6.3 Women's right to property and consent
  * 7 Parallels with Western legal systems
  * 8 See also
  * 9 References
    * 9.1 Notes
    * 9.2 Citations
    * 9.3 Sources
  * 10 Further reading
  * 11 External links

## Etymology and usage[edit]

### Contemporary usage[edit]

The word _sharīʿah_ is used by Arabic-speaking peoples of the Middle East to
designate a prophetic religion in its totality.[19] For example, _sharīʿat
Mūsā_ means law or religion of Moses and _sharīʿatu-nā_ can mean "our
religion" in reference to any monotheistic faith.[19] Within Islamic
discourse, _šarīʿah_ refers to religious regulations governing the lives of
Muslims.[19] For many Muslims, the word means simply "justice", and they will
consider any law that promotes justice and social welfare to conform to
sharia.[3]

Jan Michiel Otto distinguishes four senses conveyed by the term _sharia_ in
religious, legal and political discourse:[20]

  * _Divine, abstract sharia_ : God's plan for mankind and the norms of behavior which should guide the Islamic community. Muslims of different perspectives agree in their respect for the abstract notion of sharia, but they differ in how they understand the practical implications of the term.
  * _Classical sharia_ : the body of rules and principles elaborated by Islamic jurists during the first centuries of Islam.
  * _Historical sharia(s)_ : the body of rules and interpretations developed throughout Islamic history, ranging from personal beliefs to state legislation and varying across an ideological spectrum. Classical sharia has often served as a point of reference for these variants, but they have also reflected the influences of their time and place.
  * _Contemporary sharia(s)_ : the full spectrum of rules and interpretations that are developed and practiced at present.

A related term _al-qānūn al-islāmī_ ( القانون الإسلامي, Islamic law), which
was borrowed from European usage in the late 19th century, is used in the
Muslim world to refer to a legal system in the context of a modern state.[21]

### Etymology[edit]

The primary range of meanings of the Arabic word _šarīʿah_ , derived from the
root _š-r-ʕ_ , is related to religion and religious law.[19] The
lexicographical tradition records two major areas of use where the word
_šarīʿah_ can appear without religious connotation.[22] In texts evoking a
pastoral or nomadic environment, the word and its derivatives refer to
watering animals at a permanent water-hole or to the seashore, with special
reference to animals who come there.[22] Another area of use relates to
notions of stretched or lengthy.[22] This range of meanings is cognate with
the Hebrew _saraʿ_ and is likely to be the origin of the meaning "way" or
"path".[22] Both these areas have been claimed to have given rise to aspects
of the religious meaning.[22]

Some scholars describe the word _šarīʿah_ as an archaic Arabic word denoting
"pathway to be followed" (analogous to the Hebrew term Halakhah ["The Way to
Go"]),[23] or "path to the water hole"[24][25] and argue that its adoption as
a metaphor for a divinely ordained way of life arises from the importance of
water in an arid desert environment.[25]

###  Use in religious texts[edit]

In the Quran, _šarīʿah_ and its cognate _širʿah_ occur once each, with the
meaning "way" or "path".[19] The word _šarīʿah_ was widely used by Arabic-
speaking Jews during the Middle Ages, being the most common translation for
the word _torah_ in the 10th century Arabic Old Testament known as Saʿadya
Gaon.[19] A similar use of the term can be found in Christian writers.[19] The
Arabic expression _Sharīʿat Allāh_ ( شريعة الله "God’s Law") is a common
translation for תורת אלוהים (‘God’s Law’ in Hebrew) and νόμος τοῦ θεοῦ (‘God’s
Law’ in Greek in the New Testament [Rom. 7: 22]).[26] In Muslim literature,
_šarīʿah_ designates the laws or message of a prophet or God, in contrast to
_fiqh_ , which refers to a scholar's interpretation thereof.[27]

## Historical origins[edit]

Further information: Fiqh, Madhhab, and Ahl al-Hadith

Juristic exchange between Abu Dawood and Ibn Hanbal. One of the oldest
literary manuscripts of the Islamic world, dated October 879.

According to the traditional Muslim view, the emergence of Islamic
jurisprudence ( _fiqh_ ) goes back to the lifetime of the Islamic prophet
Muhammad.[3][4] In this view, his companions and followers took what he did
and approved of as a model (sunnah) and transmitted this information to the
succeeding generations in the form of hadith.[3][4] These reports led first to
informal discussion and then systematic legal thought, articulated with
greatest success in the eighth and ninth centuries by the master jurists Abu
Hanifah, Malik ibn Anas, Al-Shafi‘i, and Ahmad ibn Hanbal, who are viewed as
the founders of the Hanafi, Maliki, Shafiʿi, and Hanbali legal schools (
_madhhabs_ ) of Sunni jurisprudence.[4]

Modern historians have presented alternative theories of the formation of
fiqh.[3][4] At first Western scholars accepted the general outlines of the
traditional account.[28] An influential revisionist hypothesis was advanced by
Ignac Goldziher and elaborated by Joseph Schacht in the mid-20th century.[4]
Schacht argued that the hadith reflected local practices of early Muslim
communities and their chains of transmission were extended back to Muhammad's
companions at a later date, when it became accepted that legal norms must be
formally grounded in scriptural sources.[4] In his view, the real architect of
Islamic jurisprudence was al-Shafi'i, who formulated this and other elements
of classical legal theory in his work _al-risala_.[4][28] Both these accounts
gave rise to objections, and modern historians generally adopt more cautious,
intermediate positions.[28]

While the origin of hadith remains a subject of scholarly controversy, it is
generally accepted that early Islamic jurisprudence developed out of a
combination of administrative and popular practices shaped by the religious
and ethical precepts of Islam.[29][3][30] It continued some aspects of pre-
Islamic laws and customs of the lands that fell under Muslim rule in the
aftermath of the early conquests and modified other aspects, aiming to meet
the practical need of establishing Islamic norms of behavior and adjudicating
disputes arising in the early Muslim communities.[31] Juristic thought
gradually developed in study circles, where independent scholars met to learn
from a local master and discuss religious topics.[31][32] At first, these
circles were fluid in their membership, but with time distinct regional legal
schools crystallized around shared sets of methodological principles.[32][3]
As the boundaries of the schools became clearly delineated, the authority of
their doctrinal tenets came to be vested in a master jurist from earlier
times, who was henceforth identified as the school's founder.[32][3] In the
course of the first three centuries of Islam, all legal schools came to accept
the broad outlines of classical legal theory, according to which Islamic law
had to be firmly rooted in the Quran and hadith.[3][33]

## Traditional jurisprudence ( _fiqh_ )[edit]

Main article: Fiqh

Fiqh is traditionally divided into the fields of _uṣūl al-fiqh_ (lit. the
roots of fiqh), which studies the theoretical principles of jurisprudence, and
_furūʿ al-fiqh_ (lit. the branches of fiqh), which is devoted to elaboration
of rulings on the basis of these principles.[4][34]

###  Principles of jurisprudence ( _uṣūl al-fiqh_ )[edit]

Main article: Principles of Islamic jurisprudence

Classical jurists held that human reason is a gift from God which should be
exercised to its fullest capacity.[35] However, they believed that use of
reason alone is insufficient to distinguish right from wrong, and that
rational argumentation must draw its content from the body of transcendental
knowledge revealed in the Quran and through the sunnah of Muhammad.[35]

Traditional theory of Islamic jurisprudence elaborates how scriptures should
be interpreted from the standpoint of linguistics and rhetoric.[4] It also
comprises methods for establishing authenticity of hadith and for determining
when the legal force of a scriptural passage is abrogated by a passage
revealed at a later date.[4] In addition to the Quran and sunnah, the
classical theory of Sunni fiqh recognizes two other sources of law: juristic
consensus ( _ijmaʿ_ ) and analogical reasoning ( _qiyas_ ).[29] It therefore
studies the application and limits of analogy, as well as the value and limits
of consensus, along with other methodological principles, some of which are
accepted by only certain legal schools.[4] This interpretive apparatus is
brought together under the rubric of ijtihad, which refers to a jurist's
exertion in an attempt to arrive at a ruling on a particular question.[4] The
theory of Twelver Shia jurisprudence parallels that of Sunni schools with some
differences, such as recognition of reason ( _ʿaql_ ) as a source of law in
place of _qiyas_ and extension of the notion of sunnah to include traditions
of the imams.[36]

####  Sources of sharia[edit]

Main article: Sources of sharia

  * _Quran_ : In Islam, the Quran is considered to be the most sacred source of law.[37] Classical jurists held its textual integrity to be beyond doubt on account of it having been handed down by many people in each generation, which is known as "recurrence" or "concurrent transmission" ( _tawātur_ ).[29][37] Only several hundred verses of the Quran have direct legal relevance, and they are concentrated in a few specific areas such as inheritance, though other passages have been used as a source for general principles whose legal ramifications were elaborated by other means.[3][37]
  * _Hadith_ : The body of hadith provides more detailed and practical legal guidance, but it was recognized early on that not all of them were authentic.[3][37] Early Islamic scholars developed a methodology for evaluating their authenticity by assessing trustworthiness of the individuals listed in their transmission chains.[37] These criteria narrowed down the vast corpus of prophetic traditions to several thousand "sound" hadiths, which were collected in several canonical compilations.[37] The hadiths which enjoyed concurrent transmission were deemed unquestionably authentic; however, the vast majority of hadiths were handed down by only one or a few transmitters and were therefore seen to yield only probable knowledge.[38][29] The uncertainty was further compounded by ambiguity of the language contained in some hadiths and Quranic passages.[37] Disagreements on the relative merits and interpretation of the textual sources allowed legal scholars considerable leeway in formulating alternative rulings.[3]
  * _Consensus (ijma)_ could in principle elevate a ruling based on probable evidence to absolute certainty.[39][3] This classical doctrine drew its authority from a series of hadiths stating that the Islamic community could never agree on an error.[39] This form of consensus was technically defined as agreement of all competent jurists in any particular generation, acting as representatives of the community.[39][3][40] However, the practical difficulty of obtaining and ascertaining such an agreement meant that it had little impact on legal development.[39][3] A more pragmatic form of consensus, which could be determined by consulting works of prominent jurists, was used to confirm a ruling so that it could not be reopened for further discussion.[3] The cases for which there was a consensus account for less than 1 percent of the body of classical jurisprudence.[39]
  * _Analogical reasoning (qiyas)_ : Qiyas is used to derive a ruling for a situation not addressed in the scripture by analogy with a scripturally based rule.[29] In a classic example, the Quranic prohibition of drinking wine is extended to all intoxicating substances, on the basis of the "cause" ( _ʿilla_ ) shared by these situations, which in this case is identified to be intoxication.[29] Since the cause of a rule may not be apparent, its selection commonly occasioned controversy and extensive debate.[41] Twelver Shia jurisprudence does not recognize the use of qiyas, but relies on reason ( _ʿaql_ ) in its place.[34]

#### Ijtihad[edit]

Main article: Ijtihad

Turkish mufti (17th century Spanish drawing)

The classical process of ijtihad combined these generally recognized
principles with other methods, which were not adopted by all legal schools,
such as _istihsan_ (juristic preference), _istislah_ (consideration of public
interest) and _istishab_ (presumption of continuity).[29] A jurist who is
qualified to practice ijtihad is known as a _mujtahid_.[30] The use of
independent reasoning to arrive at a ruling is contrasted with _taqlid_
(imitation), which refers to following the rulings of a mujtahid.[30] By the
beginning of the 10th century, development of Sunni jurisprudence prompted
leading jurists to state that the main legal questions had been addressed and
the scope of ijtihad was gradually restricted.[30][42] From the 18th century
on, leading Muslim reformers began calling for abandonment of taqlid and
renewed emphasis on ijtihad, which they saw as a return to the vitality of
early Islamic jurisprudence.[42]

####  Decision types ( _aḥkām_ )[edit]

Main article: Ahkam

Sharia rulings fall into one of five categories known as “the five decisions”
( _al-aḥkām al-khamsa_ ): mandatory ( _farḍ_ or _wājib_ ), recommended (
_mandūb_ or _mustaḥabb_ ), neutral ( _mubāḥ_ ), reprehensible ( _makrūh_ ),
and forbidden ( _ḥarām_ ).[3][34] It is a sin or a crime to perform a
forbidden action or not to perform a mandatory action.[3] Reprehensible acts
should be avoided, but they are not considered to be sinful or punishable in
court.[3][43] Avoiding reprehensible acts and performing recommended acts is
held to be subject of reward in the afterlife, while allowed actions entail no
judgement from God.[3][43] Jurists disagree on whether the term _ḥalāl_ covers
the first three or the first four categories.[3] The legal and moral verdict
depends on whether the action is committed out of necessity ( _ḍarūra_ ).[3]

#### Aims of sharia and public interest[edit]

Main articles: Maqasid and Maslaha

_Maqāṣid_ (aims or purposes) of sharia and _maṣlaḥa_ (welfare or public
interest) are two related classical doctrines which have come to play an
increasingly prominent role in modern times.[44][45][46] They were first
clearly articulated by al-Ghazali (d. 1111), who argued that _maslaha_ was
God's general purpose in revealing the divine law, and that its specific aims
was preservation of five essentials of human well-being: religion, life,
intellect, offspring, and property.[47] Although most classical-era jurists
recognized _maslaha_ and _maqasid_ as important legal principles, they held
different views regarding the role they should play in Islamic law.[44][46]
Some jurists viewed them as auxiliary rationales constrained by scriptural
sources and analogical reasoning.[44][48] Others regarded them as an
independent source of law, whose general principles could override specific
inferences based on the letter of scripture.[44][49] While the latter view was
held by a minority of classical jurists, in modern times it came to be
championed in different forms by prominent scholars who sought to adapt
Islamic law to changing social conditions by drawing on the intellectual
heritage of traditional jurisprudence.[44][29][45] These scholars expanded the
inventory of _maqasid_ to include such aims of sharia as reform and women's
rights (Rashid Rida); justice and freedom (Mohammed al-Ghazali); and human
dignity and rights (Yusuf al-Qaradawi).[44]

###  Branches of law[edit]

Part of a series on  
---  
Islamic jurisprudence  
( _fiqh_ )  
  
Ritual

| _Salat_  
---  
  
  * _Raka'ah_
  * _Qibla_
  * _Turbah_

  * _Sunnah salat_

    * ( _Tahajjud_
    * _Tarawih_ )

  * _Nafl salat_

  
_Sawm_  
_Hajj_  
  
  * _Ihram_  (clothing
  * _Mut'ah_)
  * _Tawaf_
  * _Umrah_  (and _Hajj_)

  
  
Political

  * Islamic leadership

  * Caliphate
  * _Imamah_
  * _Wilayat al-faqih_
  * _Bay'ah_
  * _Dhimmi_

  
  
Marital

| Marriage  
---  
  
  * Contract
  * _Mahr_

  * _Misyar_
  * _Halala_
  * _Urfi_
  * _Mut‘ah_

  
  
  * Polygyny
  * Divorce
    * _Khula_
  * _Iddah_
  * _Kafa'ah_

  * Adoption

  
  
Sexual

  * Masturbation
  * Hygiene
  * Sexual violation
  * _Zina_
  * _Awrah_

  
  
Criminal

| _Hudud_  
---  
  
  * Blasphemy
  * _Maisir_  (gambling)
  * _Zina_  (illicit sex)
  * _Hirabah_  (unlawful warfare)
  * _Fasad_  ("mischief")
  * _Rajm_  (stoning)

  
  
  * _Tazir_  (discretionary)
  * _Qisas_  (retaliation)
  * _Diya_  (compensation)

  
  
Etiquette

  * _Adab_
  * Gender segregation
  * _Mahram_
  * Honorifics
  * _Rada_
  * Toilet

  
  
Economic

| History  
---  
_Zakat_  
  
  * _Jizya_
  * _Nisab_
  * _Khums_
  * _Sadaqah_  ( _Waqf_ )

  * _Bayt al-mal_

  
Banking  
  
  * _Riba_
  * _Murabaha_
  * _Takaful_
  * _Sukuk_

  
  
Inheritance  
  
Hygiene

|

  * Sexual
  * Toilet
  * _Taharah_
  * _Ihram_
  * _Wudu_
  * _Masah_
  * _Ghusl_
  * _Tayammum_
  * _Miswak_
  * _Najis_

  
  
---  
Dietary  
  
  * _Dhabihah_
  * Alcohol
  * Pork

  * Comparison with _kashrut_

  
  
Military

  * _Jihad_
  * _Hudna_
  * _Istijarah_ (asylum)
  * Prisoners of war

  
  
Islamic studies  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
Further information: Topics of sharia law

The domain of _furūʿ al-fiqh_ (lit. branches of fiqh) is traditionally divided
into _ʿibādāt_ (rituals or acts of worship) and _muʿāmalāt_ (social
relations).[4][30] Many jurists further divided the body of substantive
jurisprudence into "the four quarters", called rituals, sales, marriage and
injuries.[50] Each of these terms figuratively stood for a variety of
subjects.[50] For example, the quarter of sales would encompass partnerships,
guaranty, gifts, and bequests, among other topics.[50] Juristic works were
arranged as a sequence of such smaller topics, each called a "book" ( _kitab_
).[4][50] The special significance of ritual was marked by always placing its
discussion at the start of the work.[4][50]

Some historians distinguish a field of Islamic criminal law, which combines
several traditional categories.[3][51][34] Several crimes with scripturally
prescribed punishments are known as _hudud_.[3] Jurists developed various
restrictions which in many cases made them virtually impossible to apply.[3]
Other crimes involving intentional bodily harm are judged according to a
version of _lex talionis_ that prescribes a punishment analogous to the crime
( _qisas_ ), but the victims or their heirs may accept a monetary compensation
( _diya_ ) or pardon the perpetrator instead; only _diya_ is imposed for non-
intentional harm.[3][51] Other criminal cases belong to the category of
_taʿzīr_ , where the goal of punishment is correction or rehabilitation of the
culprit and its form is largely left to the judge's discretion.[3][51] In
practice, since early on in Islamic history, criminal cases were usually
handled by ruler-administered courts or local police using procedures which
were only loosely related to sharia.[4][51]

The two major genres of _furūʿ_ literature are the _mukhtasar_ (concise
summary of law) and the _mabsut_ (extensive commentary).[4] _Mukhtasars_ were
short specialized treatises or general overviews that could be used in a
classroom or consulted by judges.[4][3][52] A _mabsut_ , which usually
provided a commentary on a _mukhtasar_ and could stretch to dozens of large
volumes, recorded alternative rulings with their justifications, often
accompanied by a proliferation of cases and conceptual distinctions.[4][52]
The terminology of juristic literature was conservative and tended to preserve
notions which had lost their practical relevance.[4] At the same time, the
cycle of abridgement and commentary allowed jurists of each generation to
articulate a modified body of law to meet changing social conditions.[52]
Other juristic genres include the _qawāʿid_ (succinct formulas meant to aid
the student remember general principles) and collections of fatwas by a
particular scholar.[3]

###  Schools of law[edit]

Main article: Madhhab

Predominant madhhab by region of the Muslim world

The main Sunni schools of law ( _madhhabs_ ) are the Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i
and Hanbali madhhabs.[30] They emerged in the ninth and tenth centuries and by
the twelfth century almost all jurists aligned themselves with a particular
madhhab.[53] These four schools recognize each other's validity and they have
interacted in legal debate over the centuries.[53][30] Rulings of these
schools are followed across the Muslim world without exclusive regional
restrictions, but they each came to dominate in different parts of the
world.[53][30] For example, the Maliki school is predominant in North and West
Africa; the Hanafi school in South and Central Asia; the Shafi'i school in
Lower Egypt, East Africa, and Southeast Asia; and the Hanbali school in North
and Central Arabia.[53][30][3] The first centuries of Islam also witnessed a
number of short-lived Sunni madhhabs.[4] The Zahiri school, which is commonly
identified as extinct, continues to exert influence over legal
thought.[4][30][53] The development of Shia legal schools occurred along the
lines of theological differences and resulted in formation of the Twelver,
Zaidi and Ismaili madhhabs, whose differences from Sunni legal schools are
roughly of the same order as the differences among Sunni schools.[4][3] The
Ibadi legal school, distinct from Sunni and Shia madhhabs, is predominant in
Oman.[30]

The transformations of Islamic legal institutions in the modern era have had
profound implications for the madhhab system.[53] Legal practice in most of
the Muslim world has come to be controlled by government policy and state law,
so that the influence of the madhhabs beyond personal ritual practice depends
on the status accorded to them within the national legal system.[53] State law
codification commonly utilized the methods of _takhayyur_ (selection of
rulings without restriction to a particular madhhab) and _talfiq_ (combining
parts of different rulings on the same question).[53] Legal professionals
trained in modern law schools have largely replaced traditional ulema as
interpreters of the resulting laws.[53] Global Islamic movements have at times
drawn on different madhhabs and at other times placed greater focus on the
scriptural sources rather than classical jurisprudence.[53] The Hanbali
school, with its particularly strict adherence to the Quran and hadith, has
inspired conservative currents of direct scriptural interpretation by the
Salafi and Wahhabi movements.[53] Other currents, such as networks of
Indonesian ulema and Islamic scholars residing in Muslim-minority countries,
have advanced liberal interpretations of Islamic law without focusing on
traditions of a particular madhhab.[53]

Part of a series on:  
Islamism  
---  
  
Fundamentals

  * Islam
  * History
  * Culture
  * Economics
  * Politics
  * Secularism

  
  
Ideology

  * Islamism
  * Qutbism
  * Salafism
  * Shia Islamism  

Islamic fundamentalism  
  
Concepts

  * Caliphate
  * Islamic democracy
  * Islamic socialism
  * Islamic state
    * Islamic monarchy
    * Islamic republic
  * Islamization (of knowledge)
  * Jihad
  * Pan-Islamism
  * Post-Islamism
  * Sharia
  * _Shura_
  * Slavery
  * Two-nation theory
  * Ummah

  
  
Influences

  * Anti-imperialism
  * Anti-Zionism
  * Islamic Golden Age
  * Islamic revival

  
  
Movements

**Scholastic**

  * Ahl-i Hadith
  * Deobandi
  * Madkhalism
  * Sahwa movement
  * Wahhabism

**Political**

  * Hizb ut-Tahrir
  * Iranian Revolution
  * Jamaat-e-Islami
  * Millî Görüş
  * Muslim Brotherhood
  * List of Islamic political parties

**Militia**

  * Militant Islamism based in 
    * MENA region
    * South Asia
    * Southeast Asia
    * Sub-Saharan Africa

  
  
Key texts

  * _Reconstruction of Religious Thought in Islam_  
(Iqbal 1930s)

  * _Principles of State and Government_  
(Asad 1961)

  * _Ma'alim fi al-Tariq_ ("Milestones")  
(Qutb 1965)

  * __Islamic Government:  
Governance of the Jurist_ ("Velayat-e faqih")_  
(Khomeini 1970)

  
  
Heads of state

  * Ali Khamenei
  * Omar al-Bashir
  * Muammar Gaddafi
  * Ruhollah Khomeini
  * Mohamed Morsi
  * Mohammad Omar
  * House of Saud
  * House of Thani
  * Zia-ul-Haq

  
  
Key ideologues

  * Muhammad Abduh
  * Jamāl al-Dīn al-Afghānī
  * Qazi Hussain Ahmad
  * Muhammad Nasiruddin al-Albani
  * Muhammad Asad
  * Hassan al-Banna
  * Necmettin Erbakan
  * Rached Ghannouchi
  * Safwat Hegazi
  * Muhammad Iqbal
  * Ali Khamenei
  * Ruhollah Khomeini
  * Abul A'la Maududi
  * Taqi al-Din al-Nabhani
  * Yusuf al-Qaradawi
  * Sayyid Qutb
  * Tariq Ramadan
  * Ata Abu Rashta
  * Rashid Rida
  * Navvab Safavi
  * Ali Shariati
  * Haji Shariatullah
  * Hassan Al-Turabi
  * Ahmed Yassin

  
  
Related topics

  * Criticism of Islamism
  * Islam and other religions
  * Islamophobia
  * Reform movements
  * Modernity (Modernism)

  
  
Islam portal

Politics portal  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
  

### Social context[edit]

From the 9th century onward, the power to interpret law in traditional Islamic
societies was in the hands of the scholars (ulema). This separation of powers
served to limit the range of actions available to the ruler, who could not
easily decree or reinterpret law independently and expect the continued
support of the community.[54] Through succeeding centuries and empires, the
balance between the ulema and the rulers shifted and reformed, but the balance
of power was never decisively changed.[55] Over the course of many centuries,
imperial, political and technological change, including the Industrial
Revolution and the French Revolution, ushered in an era of European world
hegemony that gradually included the domination of many of the lands which had
previously been ruled by Islamic empires.[56][57] At the end of the Second
World War, the European powers found themselves too weakened to maintain their
empires as before.[58] The wide variety of forms of government, systems of
law, attitudes toward modernity and interpretations of sharia are a result of
the ensuing drives for independence and modernity in the Muslim world.[59][60]

## Application[edit]

|

This section **possibly containsoriginal research**.  Please improve it by
verifying the claims made and adding inline citations. Statements consisting
only of original research should be removed. _(March 2017)_ _(Learn how and
when to remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
###  Application by country[edit]

Main article: Application of sharia law by country

Use of sharia by country:  

  Sharia plays no role in the judicial system.

  Sharia applies to Muslim's personal law.

  Sharia applies in full, including criminal law.

  Regional variations in the application of sharia.

Most Muslim-majority countries incorporate sharia at some level in their legal
framework, with many calling it the highest law or the source of law of the
land in their constitution.[61][62] Most use sharia for personal law
(marriage, divorce, domestic violence, child support, family law, inheritance
and such matters).[63][64] Elements of sharia are present, to varying extents,
in the criminal justice system of many Muslim-majority countries.[65] Saudi
Arabia, Yemen, Brunei, Qatar, Pakistan, United Arab Emirates, Iraq, Iran,
Afghanistan, Sudan and Mauritania apply the code predominantly or entirely
while it applies in some parts of Indonesia.[65][66]

Most Muslim-majority countries with sharia-prescribed hudud punishments in
their legal code do not prescribe it routinely and use other punishments
instead.[61][67] The harshest sharia penalties such as stoning, beheading and
other forms of the death penalty are enforced with varying levels of
consistency.[68]

Since the 1970s, most Muslim-majority countries have faced vociferous demands
from their religious groups and political parties for immediate adoption of
sharia as the sole, or at least primary, legal framework.[69] Some moderates
and liberal scholars within these Muslim countries have argued for limited
expansion of sharia.[70]

With the growing Muslim immigrant communities in Europe, there have been
reports in some media of "no-go zones" being established where sharia law
reigns supreme.[71][72] However, there is no evidence of the existence of "no-
go zones", and these allegations are sourced from anti-immigrant groups
falsely equating low-income neighborhoods predominantly inhabited by
immigrants as "no-go zones".[73][74] In England, the Muslim Arbitration
Tribunal makes use of sharia family law to settle disputes, though this
limited adoption of sharia is controversial.[75][76][77]

### Enforcement[edit]

Main articles: Islamic religious police and Hisbah

Sharia is enforced in Islamic nations in a number of ways, including
_mutaween_ (police enforcement) and _hisbah_. mutaween (Arabic: _المطوعين،
مطوعية_ ‎ _muṭawwiʿīn, muṭawwiʿiyyah_ )[78] are the government-authorized or
government-recognized religious police (or clerical police) of Saudi Arabia.
Elsewhere, enforcement of Islamic values in accordance with sharia is the
responsibility of the _Polisi Perda Syariah Islam_ in Aceh province of
Indonesia,[79] the Committee for the Propagation of Virtue and the Prevention
of Vice (Gaza Strip) in parts of Palestine, and the Basiji Force in Iran.[80]

Official from the Taliban beating a woman in Afghanistan for violating local
interpretation of sharia.[81][82]

Hisbah (Arabic: _حسبة_ ‎ _ḥisb(ah)_ , or hisba) is a historic Islamic doctrine
which means "accountability".[83] Hisbah doctrine holds that it is a religious
obligation of every Muslim that he or she report to the ruler (Sultan,
government authorities) any wrong behavior of a neighbor or relative that
violates sharia or insults Islam. The doctrine states that it is the divinely
sanctioned duty of the ruler to intervene when such charges are made, and
coercively "command right and forbid wrong" in order to keep everything in
order according to sharia.[84][85][86] Al-Jama'a al-Islamiyya (considered a
terrorist organization) suggest that enforcement of sharia under the Hisbah
doctrine is the sacred duty of all Muslims, not just rulers.[84]

The doctrine of Hisbah in Islam may allow a Muslim to accuse another Muslim,
ex-Muslim or non-Muslim for beliefs or behavior that harms Islamic society.
This principle has been used in countries such as Egypt, Pakistan and others
to bring blasphemy charges against apostates.[87] For example, in Egypt,
sharia was enforced on the Muslim scholar Nasr Abu Zayd, through the doctrine
of Hisbah for apostasy.[88][89] Similarly, in Nigeria, after twelve northern
Muslim-majority states such as Kano adopted a sharia-based penal code between
1999 and 2000, hisbah became the allowed method of sharia enforcement where
Muslim citizens could police compliance of moral order based on sharia.[90] In
Aceh province of Indonesia, Islamic vigilante activists have invoked Hisbah
doctrine to enforce sharia on fellow Muslims as well as demanding that non-
Muslims respect sharia.[91][92] Hisbah has been used in many Muslim majority
countries to enforce sharia restrictions on blasphemy and criticism of Islam
over internet and social media.[93][94]

### Legal and court proceedings[edit]

Shariah Court in Malacca, Malaysia.

Sharia judicial proceedings have significant differences from other legal
traditions, including those in both common law and civil law. Sharia courts
traditionally do not rely on lawyers; plaintiffs and defendants represent
themselves. Trials are conducted solely by the judge, and there is no jury
system. There is no pre-trial discovery process, and no cross-examination of
witnesses. Unlike common law, judges' verdicts do not set binding
precedents[95][96] under the principle of _stare decisis_ ,[97] and unlike
civil law, sharia is left to the interpretation in each case and has no
formally codified universal statutes.[98]

The rules of evidence in sharia courts also maintain a distinctive custom of
prioritizing oral testimony.[99] Witnesses, in a sharia court system, must be
faithful, that is Muslim.[100] Male Muslim witnesses are deemed more reliable
than female Muslim witnesses, and non-Muslim witnesses considered unreliable
and receive no priority in a sharia court.[101][102] In civil cases in some
countries, a Muslim woman witness is considered half the worth and reliability
than a Muslim man witness.[103][104] In criminal cases, women witnesses are
unacceptable in stricter, traditional interpretations of sharia, such as those
found in Hanbali madhhab.[100]

#### Criminal cases[edit]

A confession, an oath, or the oral testimony of Muslim witnesses are the main
evidence admissible, in sharia courts, for hudud crimes, that is the religious
crimes of adultery, fornication, rape, accusing someone of illicit sex but
failing to prove it, apostasy, drinking intoxicants and
theft.[105][106][107][108] Testimony must be from at least two free Muslim
male witnesses, or one Muslim male and two Muslim females, who are not related
parties and who are of sound mind and reliable character. Testimony to
establish the crime of adultery, fornication or rape must be from four Muslim
male witnesses, with some fiqhs allowing substitution of up to three male with
six female witnesses; however, at least one must be a Muslim male.[109]
Forensic evidence ( _i.e._ , fingerprints, ballistics, blood samples, DNA
etc.) and other circumstantial evidence is likewise rejected in hudud cases in
favor of eyewitnesses, a practice which can cause severe difficulties for
women plaintiffs in rape cases.[110][111]

Muslim jurists have debated whether and when coerced confession and coerced
witnesses are acceptable.[ _citation needed_ ] In the Ottoman Criminal Code,
the executive officials were allowed to use torture only if the accused had a
bad reputation and there were already indications of his guilt, such as when
stolen goods were found in his house, if he was accused of grievous bodily
harm by the victim or if a criminal during investigation mentioned him as an
accomplice.[112] Confessions obtained under torture could not be used as a
ground for awarding punishment unless they were corroborated by circumstantial
evidence.[112]

#### Civil cases[edit]

Quran 2:282 recommends written financial contracts with reliable witnesses,
although there is dispute about equality of female testimony.[104]

Marriage is solemnized as a written financial contract, in the presence of two
Muslim male witnesses, and it includes a brideprice (Mahr) payable from a
Muslim man to a Muslim woman. The brideprice is considered by a sharia court
as a form of debt. Written contracts are paramount in sharia courts in the
matters of dispute that are debt-related, which includes marriage
contracts.[113] Written contracts in debt-related cases, when notarized by a
judge, is deemed more reliable.[114]

In commercial and civil contracts, such as those relating to exchange of
merchandise, agreement to supply or purchase goods or property, and others,
oral contracts and the testimony of Muslim witnesses triumph over written
contracts. Sharia system has held that written commercial contracts may be
forged.[114][115] Timur Kuran states that the treatment of written evidence in
religious courts in Islamic regions created an incentive for opaque
transactions, and the avoidance of written contracts in economic relations.
This led to a continuation of a "largely oral contracting culture" in Muslim
nations and communities.[115][116]

In lieu of written evidence, oaths are accorded much greater weight; rather
than being used simply to guarantee the truth of ensuing testimony, they are
themselves used as evidence. Plaintiffs lacking other evidence to support
their claims may demand that defendants take an oath swearing their innocence,
refusal thereof can result in a verdict for the plaintiff.[117] Taking an oath
for Muslims can be a grave act; one study of courts in Morocco found that
lying litigants would often "maintain their testimony 'right up to the moment
of oath-taking and then to stop, refuse the oath, and surrender the
case."[118] Accordingly, defendants are not routinely required to swear before
testifying, which would risk casually profaning the Quran should the defendant
commit perjury;[118] instead oaths are a solemn procedure performed as a final
part of the evidence process.[ _citation needed_ ]

#### Diya[edit]

Main article: Diya (Islam)

In classical jurisprudence monetary compensation for bodily harm ( _diya_ or
blood money) is assessed differently for different classes of victims. For
example, for Muslim women the amount was half that assessed for a Muslim
man.[119][120] _Diya_ for the death of a free Muslim man is twice as high as
for Jewish and Christian victims according to the Maliki and Hanbali madhhabs
and three times as high according to Shafi'i rules.[121] Several legals
schools assessed _diya_ for Magians ( _majus_ ) at one-fifteenth the value of
a free Muslim male.[121]

Modern countries which incorporate classical _diya_ rules into their legal
system treat them in different ways. The Pakistan Penal Code modernized the
Hanafi doctrine by eliminating distinctions between Muslims and non-
Muslims.[122] In Iran, _diya_ for non-Muslim victims professing one of the
faiths protected under the constitution (Jews, Christians, and Zoroastrians)
was made equal to _diya_ for Muslims in 2004,[123] though according to a 2006
US State Department report, the penal code still discriminates against other
religious minorities and women.[124] According to Human Rights Watch and the
US State Department, in Saudi Arabia Jewish or Christian male plaintiffs are
entitled to half the amount a Muslim male would receive, while for all other
non-Muslim males the proportion is one-sixteenth.[125][126][127]

##  Support and opposition[edit]

### Support[edit]

A 2013 survey based on interviews of 38,000 Muslims, randomly selected from
urban and rural parts in 39 countries using area probability designs, by the
Pew Forum on Religion and Public Life found that a majority—in some cases
"overwhelming" majority—of Muslims in a number of countries support making
sharia the law of the land, including Afghanistan (99%), Iraq (91%), Niger
(86%), Malaysia (86%), Pakistan (84%), Morocco (83%), Bangladesh (82%), Egypt
(74%), Indonesia (72%), Jordan (71%), Uganda (66%), Ethiopia (65%), Mali
(63%), Ghana (58%), and Tunisia (56%).[128] In Muslim regions of Southern-
Eastern Europe and Central Asia, the support is less than 50%: Russia (42%),
Kyrgyzstan (35%), Tajikistan (27%), Kosovo (20%), Albania (12%), Turkey (12%),
Kazakhstan (10%), Azerbaijan (8%). Regarding specific averages, in South Asia,
Sharia had 84% favorability rating among the respondents; in Southeast Asia
77%; in the Middle-East/North Africa 74%; in Sub-Saharan Africa 64%; in
Southern-Eastern Europe 18%; and in Central Asia 12%.[128]

However, while most of those who support implementation of sharia favor using
it in family and property disputes, fewer supported application of severe
punishments such as whippings and cutting off hands, and interpretations of
some aspects differed widely.[128] According to the Pew poll, among Muslims
who support making sharia the law of the land, most do not believe that it
should be applied to non-Muslims. In the Muslim-majority countries surveyed
this proportion varied between 74% (of 74% in Egypt) and 19% (of 10% in
Kazakhstan), as percentage of those who favored making sharia the law of the
land.[129] Polls demonstrate that for Egyptians, the 'Shariah' is associated
with notions of political, social and gender justice.[130]

In 2008, Rowan Williams, the Archbishop of Canterbury, has suggested that
Islamic and Orthodox Jewish courts should be integrated into the British legal
system alongside ecclesiastical courts to handle marriage and divorce, subject
to agreement of all parties and strict requirements for protection of equal
rights for women.[131] His reference to the sharia sparked a controversy.[131]
Later that year, Nicholas Phillips, then Lord Chief Justice of England and
Wales, stated that there was "no reason why sharia principles [...] should not
be the basis for mediation or other forms of alternative dispute
resolution."[132] A 2008 YouGov poll in the United Kingdom found 40% of Muslim
students interviewed supported the introduction of sharia into British law for
Muslims.[133] Michael Broyde, professor of law at Emory University
specializing in alternative dispute resolution and Jewish law,[134] has argued
that sharia courts can be integrated into the American religious arbitration
system, provided that they adopt appropriate institutional requirements as
American rabbinical courts have done.[135]

#### Extremism[edit]

Further information: Islamic fundamentalism and Islamic terrorism

A public demonstration calling for Sharia law in Maldives, September 2014

Fundamentalists, wishing to return to basic Islamic religious values and law,
have in some instances imposed harsh sharia punishments for crimes, curtailed
civil rights and violated human rights. Extremists have used the Quran and
their own particular version of sharia to justify acts of war and terror
against Muslim as well as non-Muslim individuals and governments, using
alternate, conflicting interpretations of sharia and their notions of
jihad.[136][137][138]

The sharia basis of arguments advocating terrorism is controversial. According
to Bernard Lewis, "[a]t no time did the classical jurists offer any approval
or legitimacy to what we nowadays call terrorism"[139] and the terrorist
practice of suicide bombing "has no justification in terms of Islamic
theology, law or tradition".[140] In the modern era the notion of jihad has
lost its jurisprudential relevance and instead gave rise to an ideological and
political discourse.[141] For al-Qaeda ideologues, in jihad all means are
legitimate, including targeting Muslim non-combatants and the mass killing of
non-Muslim civilians.[136] According to these interpretations, Islam does not
discriminate between military and civilian targets, but rather between Muslims
and nonbelievers, whose blood can be legitimately spilled.[136]

Some scholars of Islam, such as Yusuf al-Qaradawi and Sulaiman Al-Alwan, have
supported suicide attacks against Israeli civilians, arguing that they are
army reservists and hence should be considered as soldiers, while Hamid bin
Abdallah al-Ali declared that suicide attacks in Chechnya were justified as a
"sacrifice".[136][142] Many prominent Islamic scholars, including al-Qaradawi
himself, have issued condemnations of terrorism in general terms.[143] For
example, Abdul-Aziz ibn Abdullah Al ash-Sheikh, the Grand Mufti of Saudi
Arabia has stated that "terrorizing innocent people [...] constitute[s] a form
of injustice that cannot be tolerated by Islam", while Muhammad Sayyid
Tantawy, Grand Imam of al-Azhar and former Grand Mufti of Egypt has stated
that "attacking innocent people is not courageous; it is stupid and will be
punished on the Day of Judgment".[136][144]

### Opposition[edit]

Further information: Ban on sharia law

In the Western world, sharia has been called a source of "hysteria",[145]
"more controversial than ever", the one aspect of Islam that inspires
"particular dread".[146] On the Internet, "dozens of self-styled counter-
jihadis" emerged to campaign against sharia law, describing it in strict
interpretations resembling those of Salafi Muslims.[146] Also, fear of sharia
law and of "the ideology of extremism" among Muslims reportedly spread to
mainstream conservative Republicans in the United States.[147] Former House
Speaker Newt Gingrich won ovations calling for a federal ban on sharia
law.[147] The issue of "liberty versus Sharia" was called a "momentous
civilisational debate" by right-wing pundit Diana West.[148] In 2008 in
Britain, the future Prime Minister (David Cameron) declared his opposition to
"any expansion of Sharia law in the UK."[149] In Germany, in 2014, the
Interior Minister (Thomas de Maizière) told a newspaper ( _Bild_ ), "Sharia
law is not tolerated on German soil."[150]

Some countries and jurisdictions have explicit bans on sharia law. In Canada,
for example, sharia law has been explicitly banned in Quebec by a 2005
unanimous vote of the National Assembly,[151] while the province of Ontario
allows family law disputes to be arbitrated only under Ontario law.[152] In
the U.S., opponents of Sharia have sought to ban it from being considered in
courts, where it has been routinely used alongside traditional Jewish and
Catholic laws to decide legal, business, and family disputes subject to
contracts drafted with reference to such laws, as long as they do not violate
secular law or the U.S. constitution.[15] After failing to gather support for
a federal law making observing Sharia a felony punishable by up to 20 years in
prison, anti-Sharia activists have focused on state legislatures.[15] By 2014,
bills aimed against use of Sharia have been introduced in 34 states and passed
in 11.[15] These bills have generally referred to banning foreign or religious
law in order to thwart legal challenges.[15]

According to Jan Michiel Otto, Professor of Law and Governance in Developing
Countries at Leiden University, "[a]nthropological research shows that people
in local communities often do not distinguish clearly whether and to what
extent their norms and practices are based on local tradition, tribal custom,
or religion. Those who adhere to a confrontational view of sharia tend to
ascribe many undesirable practices to sharia and religion overlooking custom
and culture, even if high-ranking religious authorities have stated the
opposite."[153]

## Criticism[edit]

A protester opposing the Park51 project, carries an anti-sharia sign.

### Compatibility with democracy[edit]

Further information: Islamic ethics, Islam and democracy, Shura, and Ijma

Ali Khan states that "constitutional orders founded on the principles of
sharia are fully compatible with democracy, provided that religious minorities
are protected and the incumbent Islamic leadership remains committed to the
right to recall".[154][155] Other scholars say sharia is not compatible with
democracy, particularly where the country's constitution demands separation of
religion and the democratic state.[156][157]

Courts in non-Muslim majority nations have generally ruled against the
implementation of sharia, both in jurisprudence and within a community
context, based on sharia's religious background. In Muslim nations, sharia has
wide support with some exceptions.[158] For example, in 1998 the
Constitutional Court of Turkey banned and dissolved Turkey's Refah Party on
the grounds that "Democracy is the antithesis of Sharia", the latter of which
Refah sought to introduce.[159][160]

On appeal by Refah the European Court of Human Rights determined that "sharia
is incompatible with the fundamental principles of democracy".[161][162][163]
Refah's sharia-based notion of a "plurality of legal systems, grounded on
religion" was ruled to contravene the European Convention for the Protection
of Human Rights and Fundamental Freedoms. It was determined that it would "do
away with the State's role as the guarantor of individual rights and freedoms"
and "infringe the principle of non-discrimination between individuals as
regards their enjoyment of public freedoms, which is one of the fundamental
principles of democracy".[164]

### Human rights[edit]

Several major, predominantly Muslim countries have criticized the Universal
Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR) for its perceived failure to take into
account the cultural and religious context of non-Western countries. Iran
declared in the UN assembly that UDHR was "a secular understanding of the
Judeo-Christian tradition", which could not be implemented by Muslims without
trespassing the Islamic law.[165] Islamic scholars and Islamist political
parties consider 'universal human rights' arguments as imposition of a non-
Muslim culture on Muslim people, a disrespect of customary cultural practices
and of Islam.[166][167] In 1990, the Organisation of Islamic Cooperation, a
group representing all Muslim majority nations, met in Cairo to respond to the
UDHR, then adopted the Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam.[168][169]

Ann Elizabeth Mayer points to notable absences from the Cairo Declaration:
provisions for democratic principles, protection for religious freedom,
freedom of association and freedom of the press, as well as equality in rights
and equal protection under the law. Article 24 of the Cairo declaration states
that "all the rights and freedoms stipulated in this Declaration are subject
to the Islamic _shari'a_ ".[170]

In 2009, the journal _Free Inquiry_ summarized the criticism of the Cairo
Declaration in an editorial: "We are deeply concerned with the changes to the
Universal Declaration of Human Rights by a coalition of Islamic states within
the United Nations that wishes to prohibit any criticism of religion and would
thus protect Islam's limited view of human rights. In view of the conditions
inside the Islamic Republic of Iran, Egypt, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, the Sudan,
Syria, Bangladesh, Iraq, and Afghanistan, we should expect that at the top of
their human rights agenda would be to rectify the legal inequality of women,
the suppression of political dissent, the curtailment of free expression, the
persecution of ethnic minorities and religious dissenters – in short,
protecting their citizens from egregious human rights violations. Instead,
they are worrying about protecting Islam."[171]

H. Patrick Glenn states that sharia is structured around the concept of mutual
obligations of a collective, and it considers individual human rights as
potentially disruptive and unnecessary to its revealed code of mutual
obligations. In giving priority to this religious collective rather than
individual liberty, the Islamic law justifies the formal inequality of
individuals (women, non-Islamic people).[172] Bassam Tibi states that sharia
framework and human rights are incompatible.[173] Abdel al-Hakeem Carney, in
contrast, states that sharia is misunderstood from a failure to distinguish
_sharia_ from _siyasah_ (politics).[174]

###  Freedom of speech[edit]

See also: Islam and blasphemy, Jyllands-Posten Muhammad cartoons controversy,
Blasphemy laws of the Islamic Republic of Iran, and Blasphemy law in Pakistan

The Cairo Declaration on Human Rights in Islam conditions free speech with
sharia law: Article 22(a) of the Declaration states that "Everyone shall have
the right to express his opinion freely in such manner as would not be
contrary to the principles of the Shariah."[175]

Blasphemy in Islam is any form of cursing, questioning or annoying God,
Muhammad or anything considered sacred in Islam.[176][177][178][179] The
sharia of various Islamic schools of jurisprudence specify different
punishment for blasphemy against Islam, by Muslims and non-Muslims, ranging
from imprisonment, fines, flogging, amputation, hanging, or
beheading.[176][180][181][182] In some cases, sharia allows non-Muslims to
escape death by converting and becoming a devout follower of Islam.[183]

Blasphemy, as interpreted under sharia, is controversial.[184] Muslim nations
have petitioned the United Nations to limit "freedom of speech" because
"unrestricted and disrespectful opinion against Islam creates hatred".[185]
Other nations, in contrast, consider blasphemy laws as violation of "freedom
of speech",[186] stating that freedom of expression is essential to empowering
both Muslims and non-Muslims, and point to the abuse of blasphemy laws, where
hundreds, often members of religious minorities, are being lynched, killed and
incarcerated in Muslim nations, on flimsy accusations of insulting
Islam.[187][188]

### Freedom of thought, conscience and religion[edit]

Countries that criminalize apostasy from Islam as of 2013. Some Muslim
countries impose the death penalty or a prison sentence for apostasy from
Islam, or ban non-Muslims from proselytizing .[189]

According to the United Nations' Universal Declaration of Human Rights, every
human has the right to freedom of thought, conscience and religion; this right
includes freedom to change their religion or belief. Sharia has been
criticized for not recognizing this human right. According to
scholars[16][190][191] of Islamic law, the applicable rules for religious
conversion under sharia are as follows:

  * If a person converts to Islam, or is born and raised as a Muslim, then he or she will have full rights of citizenship in an Islamic state.[16]
  * Leaving Islam is a sin and a religious crime. Once any man or woman is officially classified as Muslim, because of birth or religious conversion, he or she will be subject to the death penalty if he or she becomes an apostate, that is, abandons his or her faith in Islam in order to become an atheist, agnostic or to convert to another religion. Before executing the death penalty, sharia demands that the individual be offered one chance to return to Islam.[16]
  * If a person has never been a Muslim, and is not a kafir (infidel, unbeliever), he or she can live in an Islamic state by accepting to be a dhimmi, or under a special permission called _aman_. As a dhimmi or under aman, he or she will suffer certain limitations of rights as a subject of an Islamic state, and will not enjoy complete legal equality with Muslims.[16]
  * If a person has never been a Muslim, and is a kafir (infidel, unbeliever), sharia demands that he or she should be offered the choice to convert to Islam and become a Muslim; if he or she rejects the offer, he or she may become a dhimmi. Failure to pay the tax may lead the non-Muslim to either be enslaved, killed or ransomed if captured.[16]

According to sharia theory, conversion of disbelievers and non-Muslims to
Islam is encouraged as a religious duty for all Muslims, and leaving Islam
(apostasy), expressing contempt for Islam (blasphemy), and religious
conversion of Muslims is prohibited.[192][193] Not all Islamic scholars agree
with this interpretation of sharia theory. In practice, as of 2011, 20 Islamic
nations had laws declaring apostasy from Islam as illegal and a criminal
offense. Such laws are incompatible with the UDHR's requirement of freedom of
thought, conscience and religion.[194][195][196][197] In another 2013 report
based on international survey of religious attitudes, more than 50% of Muslim
population in 6 out of 49 Islamic countries supported death penalty for any
Muslim who leaves Islam (apostasy).[198][199] However it is also shown that
the majority of Muslims in the 43 nations surveyed did not agree with this
interpretation of sharia.

Some scholars claim sharia allows religious freedom because a sharia verse
teaches, "there is no compulsion in religion."[200] Other scholars claim
sharia recognizes only one proper religion, considers apostasy as sin
punishable with death, and members of other religions as kafir (infidel);[201]
or hold that sharia demands that all apostates and kafir must be put to death,
enslaved or be ransomed.[202][ _need quotation to verify_ ][203][204][205] Yet
other scholars suggest that sharia has become a product of human
interpretation and inevitably leads to disagreements about the “precise
contents of the Shari'a." In the end, then, what is being applied is not
sharia, but what a particular group of clerics and government decide is
sharia. It is these differing interpretations of sharia that explain why many
Islamic countries have laws that restrict and criminalize apostasy,
proselytism and their citizens' freedom of conscience and religion.[206][207]

### LGBT rights[edit]

Main article: LGBT in Islam

Same-sex intercourse illegal:

  Death penalty

  Up to life in prison

  Imprisonment

  Unenforced penalty

Homosexual intercourse is illegal under sharia law, though the prescribed
penalties differ from one school of jurisprudence to another. For example,
some Muslim-majority countries impose the death penalty for acts perceived as
sodomy and homosexual activities: Iran,[208] Saudi Arabia,[209] and in other
Muslim-majority countries such as Egypt, Iraq, and the Indonesian province of
Aceh,[92][210][211] same-sex sexual acts are illegal,[212] and LGBT people
regularly face violence and discrimination.[213]

### Women[edit]

Main articles: Women in Islam and Islam and domestic violence

#### Domestic violence[edit]

Many claim sharia law encourages domestic violence against women, when a
husband suspects _nushuz_ (disobedience, disloyalty, rebellion, ill conduct)
in his wife.[214] Other scholars claim wife beating, for _nashizah_ , is not
consistent with modern perspectives of the Quran.[215]

One of the verses of the Quran relating to permissibility of domestic violence
is Surah 4:34.[216][217] Sharia has been criticized for ignoring women's
rights in domestic abuse cases.[218][219][220][221] Musawah, CEDAW, KAFA and
other organizations have proposed ways to modify sharia-inspired laws to
improve women's rights in Islamic nations, including women's rights in
domestic abuse cases.[222][223][224][225]

#### Personal status laws and child marriage[edit]

Shari'a is the basis for personal status laws in most Islamic majority
nations. These personal status laws determine rights of women in matters of
marriage, divorce and child custody. A 2011 UNICEF report concludes that
sharia law provisions are discriminatory against women from a human rights
perspective. In legal proceedings under sharia law, a woman’s testimony is
worth half of a man’s before a court.[103]

Except for Iran[ _citation needed_ ], Lebanon[ _citation needed_ ] and
Bahrain[ _citation needed_ ] which allow child marriages[ _citation needed_ ],
the civil code in Islamic majority countries do not allow child marriage of
girls. However, with sharia personal status laws, sharia courts in all these
nations have the power to override the civil code. The religious courts permit
girls less than 18 years old to marry. As of 2011, child marriages are common
in a few Middle Eastern countries, accounting for 1 in 6 of all marriages in
Egypt and 1 in 3 marriages in Yemen. UNICEF and other studies state that the
top five nations in the world with highest observed child marriage rates –
Niger (75%), Chad (72%), Mali (71%), Bangladesh (64%), Guinea (63%) – are
Islamic-majority countries where the personal laws for Muslims are sharia-
based.[226][227] In his Cairo speech, President Obama spoke out against child
marriage.[228]

Rape is considered a crime in all countries, but sharia courts in Bahrain,
Iraq, Jordan, Libya, Morocco, Syria and Tunisia in some cases allow a rapist
to escape punishment by marrying his victim, while in other cases the victim
who complains is often prosecuted with the crime of _Zina_
(adultery).[103][229][230]

####  Women's right to property and consent[edit]

Sharia grants women the right to inherit property from other family members,
and these rights are detailed in the Quran.[231] A woman's inheritance is
unequal and less than a man's, and dependent on many factors.[Quran 4:12][232]
For instance, a daughter's inheritance is usually half that of her
brother's.[Quran 4:11][232]

Until the 20th century, Islamic law granted Muslim women certain legal rights,
such as the right to own property received as Mahr (brideprice) at her
marriage.[233][234] However, Islamic law does not grant non-Muslim women the
same legal rights as the few it did grant Muslim women. Sharia recognizes the
basic inequality between master and women slave, between free women and slave
women, between Believers and non-Believers, as well as their unequal
rights.[235][236] Sharia authorized the institution of slavery, using the
words _abd_ (slave) and the phrase _ma malakat aymanukum_ ("that which your
right hand owns") to refer to women slaves, seized as captives of
war.[235][237] Under Islamic law, Muslim men could have sexual relations with
female captives and slaves.[238][239]

Slave women under sharia did not have a right to own property or to move
freely.[240][241] Sharia, in Islam's history, provided a religious foundation
for enslaving non-Muslim women (and men), but allowed for the manumission of
slaves. However, manumission required that the non-Muslim slave first convert
to Islam.[242][243] A non-Muslim slave woman who bore children to her Muslim
master became legally free upon her master's death, and her children were
presumed to be Muslims like their father, in Africa[242] and elsewhere.[244]

Starting with the 20th century, Western legal systems evolved to expand
women's rights, but women's rights under Islamic law have remained tied to the
Quran, hadiths and their fundamentalist interpretation as sharia by Islamic
jurists.[239][245]

## Parallels with Western legal systems[edit]

Elements of Islamic law have parallels in western legal systems. As example,
the influence of Islam on the development of an international law of the sea
can be discerned alongside that of the Roman influence.[246]

Makdisi states Islamic law also parallels the legal scholastic system in the
West, which gave rise to the modern university system.[247] He writes that the
triple status of _faqih_ ("master of law"), _mufti_ ("professor of legal
opinions") and _mudarris_ ("teacher"), conferred by the classical Islamic
legal degree, had its equivalents in the medieval Latin terms _magister_ ,
_professor_ and _doctor_ , respectively, although they all came to be used
synonymously in both East and West.[247] Makdisi suggests that the medieval
European doctorate, _licentia docendi_ was modeled on the Islamic degree
_ijazat al-tadris wa-l-ifta’_ , of which it is a word-for-word translation,
with the term _ifta’_ (issuing of fatwas) omitted.[247][248] He also argues
that these systems shared fundamental freedoms: the freedom of a professor to
profess his personal opinion and the freedom of a student to pass judgement on
what he is learning.[247]

There are differences between Islamic and Western legal systems. For example,
sharia classically recognizes only natural persons, and never developed the
concept of a legal person, or corporation, i.e., a legal entity that limits
the liabilities of its managers, shareholders, and employees; exists beyond
the lifetimes of its founders; and that can own assets, sign contracts, and
appear in court through representatives.[249] Interest prohibitions imposed
secondary costs by discouraging record keeping and delaying the introduction
of modern accounting.[250] Such factors, according to Timur Kuran, have played
a significant role in retarding economic development in the Middle East.[251]

## See also[edit]

  * Law portal

  * Arabization
  * Dīn
  * Glossary of Islam
  * Guardianship of the Islamic Jurists
  * Imam Nawawi's Forty Hadith, a brief collection of forty _hadith_ by the founder of the Shāfiʿī school, each used to illustrate a fundamental of _shariah_.
  * Islam and the arts
  * Islamic republic

|

  * Islamic Sharia Council, a court in the United Kingdom with no legal authority.
  * Ma'ruf
  * More danico a law system that is applied according to group rather than territoriality
  * Octaware Technologies India's first Sharia compliant company approved to be listed on BSE
  * Rayani Air a Malaysian airline that's following sharia
  * Theonomy
  * Topics in sharia law

  
---|---  
  
##  References[edit]

### Notes[edit]

  1. **^** While the advocacy of _hudud_ punishments has gained symbolic importance, and in theory often involved rejection of the stringent traditional restrictions on their application, in practice, in those few countries where they have been reintroduced, they have often been used sparingly or not at all. Their application has varied depending on local political climate.[3][8]

###  Citations[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "British & World English: sharia". Oxford: Oxford University Press. Retrieved  4 December 2015. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ John L. Esposito, ed. (2014). "Islamic Law". _The Oxford Dictionary of Islam_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ _**l**_ _**m**_ _**n**_ _**o**_ _**p**_ _**q**_ _**r**_ _**s**_ _**t**_ _**u**_ _**v**_ _**w**_ _**x**_ _**y**_ _**z**_ _**aa**_ _**ab**_ _**ac**_ _**ad**_ _**ae**_ _**af**_ _**ag**_ _**ah**_ _**ai**_ _**aj**_ _**ak**_ _**al**_ _**am**_ _**an**_ _**ao**_ _**ap**_ _**aq**_ _**ar**_ _**as**_ Vikør 2014.
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ _**l**_ _**m**_ _**n**_ _**o**_ _**p**_ _**q**_ _**r**_ _**s**_ _**t**_ _**u**_ _**v**_ _**w**_ _**x**_ _**y**_ _**z**_ _**aa**_ Calder 2009.
  5. **^** John L. Esposito, Natana J. DeLong-Bas (2001), _Women in Muslim family law_ , p. 2. Syracuse University Press, ISBN 978-0815629085. Quote: "[...], by the ninth century, the classical theory of law fixed the sources of Islamic law at four: the _Quran_ , the _Sunnah_ of the Prophet, _qiyas_ (analogical reasoning), and _ijma_ (consensus)."
  6. **^** Otto 2008, p. 19.
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Mayer 2009.
  8. **^** Otto 2008, p. 20.
  9. **^** Rabb 2009.
  10. **^** Staff (January 3, 2003). "Analysis: Nigeria's Sharia Split". BBC News. Retrieved September 19, 2011. "Thousands of people have been killed in fighting between Christians and Muslims following the introduction of sharia punishments in northern Nigerian states over the past three years".
  11. **^** Harnischfeger, Johannes (2008).  
 • p. 16. "When the Governor of Kaduna announced the introduction of Sharia,
although non-Muslims form almost half of the population, violence erupted,
leaving more than 1,000 people dead."  
 • p. 189. "When a violent confrontation loomed in February 200, because the
strong Christian minority in Kaduna was unwilling to accept the proposed
sharia law, the sultan and his delegation of 18 emirs went to see the governor
and insisted on the passage of the bill."

  12. **^** "Israeli Law Guide". LLRX.com. 2001-01-15. Retrieved  2016-03-22. 
  13. **^** Otto 2008, pp. 18–20.
  14. **^** Stahnke, Tad and Robert C. Blitt (2005), "The Religion-State Relationship and the Right to Freedom of Religion or Belief: A Comparative Textual Analysis of the Constitutions of Predominantly Muslim Countries." Georgetown Journal of International Law, volume 36, issue 4; also see Sharia Law profile by Country, Emory University (2011)
  15. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Thomas, Jeffrey L. (2015). _Scapegoating Islam: Intolerance, Security, and the American Muslim_. ABC-CLIO. pp. 83–86. ISBN 9781440831003.  
  16. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ An-Na'im, Abdullahi A (1996). "Islamic Foundations of Religious Human Rights". In Witte, John; van der Vyver, Johan D. _Religious Human Rights in Global Perspective: Religious Perspectives_. pp.  337–59. ISBN 978-90-411-0179-2. 
  17. **^** Hajjar, Lisa (2004). "Religion, State Power, and Domestic Violence in Muslim Societies: A Framework for Comparative Analysis". _Law & Social Inquiry_. **29** (1): 1–38. doi:10.1111/j.1747-4469.2004.tb00329.x. JSTOR 4092696.  
  18. **^** Al-Suwaidi, J. (1995). _Arab and western conceptions of democracy; in Democracy, war, and peace in the Middle East_ (Editors: David Garnham, Mark A. Tessler), Indiana University Press, see Chapters 5 and 6; ISBN 978-0253209399 [ _page  needed_]
  19. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ Calder & Hooker 2007, p. 321.
  20. **^** Otto 2008, pp. 9–10.
  21. **^** Calder & Hooker 2007, p. 323.
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Calder & Hooker 2007, p. 326.
  23. **^** Abdal-Haqq, Irshad (2006). _Understanding Islamic Law  – From Classical to Contemporary_ (edited by Aminah Beverly McCloud). Chapter 1 _Islamic Law  – An Overview of its Origin and Elements_. AltaMira Press. p. 4.
  24. **^** Hashim Kamali, Mohammad (2008). _Shari'ah Law: An Introduction_. Oneworld Publications. pp. 2, 14. ISBN 978-1851685653.  
  25. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Weiss, Bernard G. (1998). _The Spirit of Islamic Law_. Athens, Georgia: University of Georgia Press. p. 17. ISBN 978-0-8203-1977-3.
  26. **^** Ullmann, M. (2002), Wörterbuch der griechisch-arabischen Übersetzungen des neunten Jahrhunderts, Wiesbaden, p. 437. Rom. 7: 22: ‘συνήδομαι γὰρ τῷ νόμῳ τοῦ θεοῦ’ is translated as ‘أني أفرح بشريعة الله’
  27. **^** Calder & Hooker 2007, p. 322.
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Jokisch 2015.
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ Ziadeh 2009.
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ Rabb 2009b.
  31. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lapidus 2014, p. 125.
  32. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Hallaq 2009, pp. 31–35.
  33. **^** Lapidus 2014, p. 130.
  34. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Schneider 2014.
  35. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hallaq 2009, p. 15.
  36. **^** Kamali 1999, pp. 121–22.
  37. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ Hallaq 2009, pp. 16–18.
  38. **^** Hallaq 2009, pp. 16-18.
  39. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Hallaq 2009, pp. 21–22.
  40. **^** Kamali 1999, p. 146.
  41. **^** Hallaq 2009, pp. 23–24.
  42. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rabb 2009c.
  43. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hallaq 2009, p. 20.
  44. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ Duderija 2014, pp. 2–6.
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Brown 2009.
  46. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gleave 2012.
  47. **^** Opwis 2007, p. 65.
  48. **^** Opwis 2007, pp. 66–68.
  49. **^** Opwis 2007, pp. 68–69.
  50. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Hallaq 2009, pp. 28-30.
  51. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Ziadeh 2009c.
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Hallaq 2009, pp. 10-11.
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ _**l**_ Hussin 2014.
  54. **^** Basim Musallam (1996). "The Ordering of Muslims Societies". In Francis Robinson. _The Cambridge Illustrated History of the Islamic World_. Cambridge University Press. p. 176.  
  55. **^** Marshall Hodgson, _The Venture of Islam Conscience and History in a World Civilization Vol 3_. University of Chicago, 1958, pp. 105–08.
  56. **^** Marshall Hodgson, _The Venture of Islam Conscience and History in a World Civilization Vol 3_. University of Chicago, 1958, pp. 176–77.
  57. **^** Sarah Ansari, _The Cambridge Illustrated History of the Islamic World edited by Francis Robinson_. Cambridge University Press, 1996, p. 90.
  58. **^** Marshall Hodgson, _The Venture of Islam Conscience and History in a World Civilization Vol 3_. University of Chicago, 1958, pp. 366–67.
  59. **^** Ansari, Sarah. _The Cambridge Illustrated History of the Islamic World edited by Francis Robinson_. Cambridge University Press, 1996, pp. 103–11.
  60. **^** Hodgson, Marshall. _The Venture of Islam Conscience and History in a World Civilization Vol 3_. University of Chicago, 1958, pp. 384–86.
  61. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Johnson, Toni; Sergie, Mohammed Aly (July 25, 2014). "Islam: Governing under Sharia". Council on Foreign Relations. 
  62. **^** Amanat & Griffel (2007), _Shari'a: Islamic Law in the Contemporary Context_ , Stanford University Press, ISBN 978-0804756396[ _page  needed_]
  63. **^** Schenker, J G (2000). "Women's reproductive health: monotheistic religious perspectives". _International Journal of Gynecology & Obstetrics_. **70** (1): 77–86. doi:10.1016/S0020-7292(00)00225-3. PMID 10884536.  
  64. **^** Khadduri & Liebesny 1955, p.  [ _page  needed_].
  65. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Nisrine Abiad (2008), Sharia, Muslim States and International Human Rights Treaty Obligations, British Institute of International and Comparative Law, ISBN 978-1905221417[ _page  needed_]
  66. **^** Otto 2010, p. 28.
  67. **^** "Right to equal protection by the law: Case Study: Sharia law". BBC World Service. Retrieved  24 February 2013. 
  68. **^** "The Emergence of Sharia Law". Online NewsHour. Archived from the original on March 8, 2013. Retrieved  20 February 2013. 
  69. **^** An-Na'im, Abdullahi Ahmed (1990). "Human Rights in the Muslim World: Socio-Political Conditions and Scriptural Imperatives". _Harvard Human Rights Journal_. **3** : 13–29. 
  70. **^** Otto 2010, pp. 29–33.
  71. **^** "Swedish Police Lose Control Of 55 No-Go Zones To Muslim Gangs". The Daily Caller. Retrieved  22 March 2015. 
  72. **^** Jaffe, Alexandra (19 January 2015). "Bobby Jindal slams 'no-go zones,' pushes 'assimilation'". CNN. Retrieved 22 March 2015. 
  73. **^** Stelter, Brian (18 January 2015). "Fox News apologizes 4 times for inaccurate comments about Muslims in Europe". CNNMoney. Retrieved 22 March 2015. 
  74. **^** "Jindal condemns imaginary 'no-go zones '". MSNBC. Retrieved 22 March 2015. 
  75. **^** Taher, Abul (September 14, 2008). Revealed: UK’s first official sharia courts. _The Sunday Times_
  76. **^** Inside Britain's Sharia courts Jane Corbin, _The Telegraph_ (April 7, 2013)
  77. **^** Bowen, John R. (2010). "How could English courts recognize Shariah?". _University of St. Thomas Law Journal_. **7** (3): 411–35.  
  78. **^** _muṭawiʿin_ ; variant English spellings: mutawwain, muttawa, mutawallees, mutawa’ah, mutawi’, mutawwa' most literally means "volunteers" in the Arabic language, _Dictionary of Modern Written Arabic_ by Hans Wehr, edited by J. M. Cowan, 4th edition (1994, ISBN 0-87950-003-4), p. 670.
  79. **^** Fealy & White (2008), _Regional Sharia Regulations in Indonesia: Anomaly or Symptom?_ , Chapter: Expressing Islam: Religious life and politics in Indonesia, ISBN 978-9812308511[ _page  needed_]
  80. **^** "Iran's Basij Force – The Mainstay Of Domestic Security. January 15, 2009". _RadioFreeEurope/RadioLiberty_.  
  81. **^** SK Moore (2012), Military Chaplains as Agents of Peace, Rowman & Littlefield, ISBN 978-0739149102, p. 169, Quote: "The Department of the Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice enforced their version of Sharia Law. A woman could not appear in public without being accompanied by a male relative. The burkha remains a symbol of oppression in Afghan society... women resisting these arcane restrictions were beaten publicly by the Taliban clothes police whose mandate it was to patrol city streets in search of malcontents, enforcing their version of Sharia law."
  82. **^** *Taliban from department of Amro bil mahroof (Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice, Taliban religious police) RAWA, Afghanistan (2001), Quote: "It shows two Taliban from department of Amro bil mahroof (Promotion of Virtue and Prevention of Vice, Taliban religious police) beating a woman in public because she has dared to remove her burqa in public"; Taliban mistreat women, Associated Press, Quote: "a woman described how her 8-year-old sister had been caught outside without a burqa and beaten by religious police."
  83. **^** Sami Zubaida (2005), Law and Power in the Islamic World, ISBN 978-1850439349, pp. 58–60
  84. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lorenzo Vidino (2013), Hisba in Europe?, European Foundation for Democracy, Switzerland
  85. **^** Michael Cook: _Commanding right and forbidding wrong in Islamic thought._ Cambridge University Press. Cambridge 2000. ISBN 0-521-66174-9 [ _page  needed_]
  86. **^** Quran 3:104, Quran 3:110, Quran 9:71
  87. **^** Nancy Gallagher (2005), Apostasy, Encyclopedia of Women and Islamic Cultures: Family, Law and Politics, Editors: Suad Joseph and Afsāna Naǧmābād, ISBN 978-9004128187, pp. 7–9
  88. **^** Berger, Maurits (2003). "Apostasy and Public Policy in Contemporary Egypt: An Evaluation of Recent Cases from Egypt's Highest Courts". _Human Rights Quarterly_. **25** (3): 720–40. doi:10.1353/hrq.2003.0026. JSTOR 20069684.  
  89. **^** Olsson, Susanne (2008). "Apostasy in Egypt: Contemporary Cases of Ḥisbah". _The Muslim World_. **98** (1): 95–115. doi:10.1111/j.1478-1913.2008.00212.x.  
  90. **^** Olaniyi, Rasheed Oyewole (2011). "Hisbah and Sharia Law Enforcement in Metropolitan Kano". _Africa Today_. **57** (4): 71–96. doi:10.2979/africatoday.57.4.71.  
  91. **^** Uddin, Asma (2010). "Religious Freedom Implications of Sharia Implementation in Aceh, Indonesia". _University of St. Thomas Law Journal_. **7** (3): 603–48. SSRN 1885776 .  
  92. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "VICE News Season 5 Episode 7". April 7, 2017. Retrieved  April 9, 2017. 
  93. **^** Helmi Noman (2013), "In the name of God – Faith based internet censorship in majority Muslim countries", in _Routledge Handbook of Media Law_ (Editors: Monroe E. Price, et al.), Routledge, ISBN 978-0415683166, Chapter 14 [ _page  needed_]
  94. **^** SK Moore (2012), Military Chaplains as Agents of Peace, Rowman & Littlefield, ISBN 978-0739149102, p. 169
  95. **^** Islamic Law – Legal Literature And Institutions, Jurisprudence: The "Sources" of the Law, The Modern Period.
  96. **^** "Qatar: The Duality of the Legal System".  
  97. **^** _Saudi Arabia Basic Industries Corp. v. Mobil Yanbu Petrochemical Co._ , Supreme Court of Delaware, January 14, 2005 p. 52. "The Saudi law system differs in critically important respects from the system of legal thought employed by the common law countries, including the United States. Perhaps most significant is that Islamic law does not embrace the common law system of binding precedent and _stare decisis_. In Saudi Arabia, judicial decisions are not in themselves a source of law, and with minor exceptions, court decisions in Saudi Arabia are not published or even open to public inspection."
  98. **^** Tetley (1999), Mixed Jurisdictions: Common Law v. Civil Law (Codified and Uncodified), La. Law Review, 60, 677
  99. **^** Fortna, Benjamin C. (March 2011). "Education and Autobiography at the End of the Ottoman Empire". _Die Welt des Islams_. New Series, Vol. 41, Issue 1. p. 131. "the literacy rate in the Ottoman Empire in 1900 was between five and ten percent".
  100. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Antoinette Vlieger (2012), Domestic Workers in Saudi Arabia and the Emirates, ISBN 978-1610271288, Chapter 4[ _page  needed_]
  101. **^** Tahir Wasti (2009), The Application of Islamic Criminal Law in Pakistan, Brill Academic, ISBN 978-9004172258, pp. 126–27
  102. **^** Etannibi E. O. Alemika (2005), "Human Rights and Shariah Penal Code in Northern Nigeria", _UN Human Rights Monitor_ , pp. 110–27
  103. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "MENA Gender Equality Profile – Status of Girls and Women in the Middle East and North Africa, UNICEF (October 2011)" (PDF). Retrieved 2016-03-22. 
  104. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Fadel, Mohammad (2009). "Two Women, One Man: Knowledge, Power, and Gender in Medieval Sunni Legal Thought". _International Journal of Middle East Studies_. **29** (2): 185–204. doi:10.1017/S0020743800064461. JSTOR 164016. SSRN 1113891 .  
  105. **^** Mohamed S. El-Awa (1993), Punishment In Islamic Law, American Trust Publications, ISBN 978-0892591428, pp. 1–68[ _not specific enough to verify_ ]
  106. **^** Philip Reichel and Jay Albanese (2013), Handbook of Transnational Crime and Justice, SAGE publications, ISBN 978-1-4522-4035-0, pp. 36–37
  107. **^** Otto 2008, p. 663.
  108. **^** Otto 2008, p. 31.
  109. **^** Ajijola, Alhaji A.D. (1989). _Introduction to Islamic Law_. Karachi: International Islamic Publishers. p. 133.
  110. **^** Kamali, Mohammad Hashim (1998). "Punishment in Islamic Law: A Critique of the Hudud Bill of Kelantan, Malaysia". _Arab Law Quarterly_. **13** (3): 203–34. doi:10.1163/026805598125826102. JSTOR 3382008.  [ _need quotation to verify_ ]
  111. **^** Mohd Noor, Azman; Ibrahim, Ahmad Basri (2008). "The rights of a rape victim in Islamic Law". _IIUM Law Journal_. **16** (1): 65–83.  
  112. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Peters, Rudolph (2006). _Crime and Punishment in Islamic Law_. Cambridge University Press. pp.  81–82. ISBN 978-0-521-79670-5. 
  113. **^** Paul Powers (2005). _Intent in Islamic Law: Motive and Meaning in Medieval Sunnī Fiqh_. Brill Academic. pp.  97–110, 125–41. ISBN 978-90-04-14592-4. 
  114. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Reem Meshal (2014), _Sharia and the Making of the Modern Egyptian_ , Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-9774166174, pp. 96–101 and Chapter 4
  115. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Timur Kuran (2012), The Long Divergence: How Islamic Law Held Back the Middle East, Princeton University Press, ISBN 978-0691156415, pp. 246–49 and Chapter 12
  116. **^** "Explaining the Economic Trajectories of Civilizations – Musings on the Systemic Approach" Archived 2014-10-20 at the Wayback Machine.. pp. 7, 10.
  117. **^** Lippman, Matthew Ross; McConville, Seán; Yerushalmi, Mordechai (1988). _Islamic Criminal Law and Procedure  – An Introduction_. New York City: Praeger Publishers. p. 71. ISBN 978-0-275-93009-7.
  118. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Frank, Michael J. (April 2006). "Trying Times – The Prosecution of Terrorists in the Central Criminal Court of Iraq". _Florida Journal of International Law_. [ _page  needed_]
  119. **^** William, Arsani (Spring 2010). "An Unjust Doctrine of Civil Arbitration: Sharia Courts in Canada and England" (PDF). _Stanford Journal of International Relations_. **11** (2): 40–47.  
  120. **^** M Kar (2005), Encyclopedia of Women and Islamic Cultures: Family, Law and Politics (Ed: Suad Joseph, Afsāna Naǧmābādī), Brill, ISBN 978-9004128187, pp. 406–07
  121. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Anver M. Emon (2012), _Religious Pluralism and Islamic Law: Dhimmis and Others in the Empire of Law_ , Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0199661633, pp. 234–35
  122. **^** Tahir Wasti (2009). _The Application of Islamic Criminal Law in Pakistan_. Brill. p. 49\. ISBN 9004172254.  
  123. **^** Silvia Tellenbach (2014). "Islamic Criminal Law". In Markus D. Dubber, Tatjana Hörnle. _The Oxford Handbook of Criminal Law_. p. 261\. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199673599.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199673599-e-12 (inactive 2017-09-12).  (Subscription required (help)). CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter (link)
  124. **^** U.S. State Department (2008-10-17). "International Religious Freedom Report 2006, U.S. State Department". 
  125. **^** State Department of the U.S. Government (2012), SAUDI ARABIA 2012 INTERNATIONAL RELIGIOUS FREEDOM REPORT, p. 4
  126. **^** Human Rights Watch (2004), Migrant Communities in Saudi Arabia
  127. **^** Saudi Arabia BUREAU OF DEMOCRACY, HUMAN RIGHTS, AND LABOR, US State Department, 2011 Report on International Religious Freedom Report (2011)
  128. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Stence, Sandra, ed. (2013). _The World’s Muslims: Religion, Politics and Society_ (PDF). Research: Alan Cooperman, Neha Sahgal, Jessica Hamar Martinez, et al. The Pew Forum on Religion & Public Life. pp. 15–19, 46, 147–48. Retrieved 31 August 2015. 
  129. **^** Stence 2013, p. 48.
  130. **^** Jonathan A.C. Brown, Misquoting Muhammad, p. 131.
  131. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Feldman, Noah (Mar 16, 2008). "Why Shiariah?". _New York Times Magazine_.  
  132. **^** "Sharia law 'could have UK role '". BBC News. 4 July 2008. Retrieved Sep 4, 2016. 
  133. **^** Killing for religion is justified, say third of Muslim students The Telegraph (July 26, 2008)
  134. **^** "Michael J. Broyde - Emory University School of Law - Atlanta, GA". _Emory University School of Law_.  
  135. **^** Michael Broyde (June 30, 2017). "Sharia in America". Volokh Conspiracy, via Washington Post. 
  136. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Anisseh Engeland-Nourai, The Challenge of Fragmentation of International Humanitarian Law Regarding the Protection of Civilians – An Islamic Perspective School of Law, University of Bedfordshire, pp. 18–25
  137. **^** Horrie & Chippindale 1991, p. 4.
  138. **^** Horrie & Chippindale 1991, p. 100.
  139. **^** Bernard Lewis (with Buntzie Ellis Churchill) 'Islam: The Religion and the People' (2008). Pearson Prentice Hall. p. 151
  140. **^** Bernard Lewis (with Buntzie Ellis Churchill) 'Islam: The Religion and the People' (2008). Pearson Prentice Hall p. 153
  141. **^** Wael B. Hallaq (2009). _Sharī'a: Theory, Practice, Transformations_. Cambridge University Press. p. 335\. ISBN 9781107394124.  
  142. **^** Controversial preacher with 'star status' BBC article, by agdi Abdelhadi on 7 July 2004
  143. **^** Charles Kurzman. "Islamic Statements Against Terrorism". 
  144. **^** Ira Lapidus, _The Cambridge Illustrated History of the Islamic World edited by Francis Robinson_. Cambridge University Press, 1996, pp. 297–98 see Bibliography for Conclusion.
  145. **^** Awad, Abed (14 June 2012). "The Nation". 
  146. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Kadri, Sadakat (2012). _Heaven on Earth: A Journey Through Shari'a Law from the Deserts of Ancient Arabia_. Macmillan. pp. 267–68. ISBN 9780099523277.  
  147. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Slajda, Rachel (September 23, 2010). "The War On Sharia Started Long Before You Ever Heard 'Ground Zero Mosque'". Talking Points Memo. TPM Muckraker. Retrieved 10 December 2015. 
  148. **^** West, Diana (23 February 2008). "Don't Ignore Sharia's Advance". Times – News [Burlington, N.C]. 
  149. **^** "Cameron steps into Sharia law row". BBC. 26 February 2008. Retrieved  10 December 2015. 
  150. **^** "Germany won't tolerate 'Sharia police '". DW. 6 September 2014. Retrieved 8 September 2015. 
  151. **^** "Quebec gives thumbs down to Shariah law".  
  152. **^** Choski, Bilal M. (14 March 2012). "Religious Arbitration in Ontario – Making the Case Based on the British Example of the Muslim Arbitration Tribunal". _law.upenn.edu_. Retrieved  10 December 2015. 
  153. **^** Otto 2008, p. 30.
  154. **^** Khan, Ali (September 9, 2002). "Will the European Court of Human Rights Push Turkey Toward Islamic Revolution?". _Jurist_. SSRN 941002 .  
  155. **^** Khan, L. Ali. _A Theory of Universal Democracy: Beyond the End of History_ , The Hague, Kluwer Law International, 2003, ISBN 90-411-2003-3.[ _page  needed_]
  156. **^** Grant, Audra K.; Tessler, Mark A. "Palestinian attitudes toward democracy and its compatibility with Islam: Evidence from public opinion research in the West Bank and Gaza". _Arab Studies Quarterly_. **24** (4): 1–20. JSTOR 41858422.  
  157. **^** Jung, Dietrich (2011). "Globalization, State Formation and Religion in the Middle East: 'Is Islam Incompatible with Democracy?'". _Distinktion: Scandinavian Journal of Social Theory_. **5** (1): 61–78. doi:10.1080/1600910X.2004.9672877.  
  158. **^** Mogahed, D. (2006), Islam and democracy Archived 2015-04-02 at the Wayback Machine., Washington: The Gallup Center for Muslim Studies
  159. **^** Toprak, Binnaz (2007). "Islam and Democracy in Turkey". _Turkish Studies_. **6** (2): 167–86. doi:10.1080/14683840500119494.  
  160. **^** Yavuz, M. Hakan (1997). "Political Islam and the Welfare (Refah) Party in Turkey". _Comparative Politics_. **30** (1): 63–82. doi:10.2307/422193. JSTOR 422193.  
  161. **^** "Refah Partisi (The Welfare Party) and Others v. Turkey". The International Journal of Not-for-Profit Law. February 13, 2003. Retrieved  20 November 2014. 
  162. **^** Hearing of the European Court of Human Rights Archived 2006-05-28 at the Wayback Machine., January 22, 2004 (PDF)
  163. **^** "ECHR press release Refah Partisi (2001)". Echr.coe.int. Archived from the original on 2010-01-24. Retrieved  2012-04-04. 
  164. **^** Christian Moe (2012), Refah Revisited: Strasbourg's Construction of Islam, in Islam, Europe and emerging legal issues (editors: W. Cole Durham Jr. et al.), ISBN 978-1-4094-3444-3, pp. 235–71
  165. **^** David P. Forsythe (2009), Encyclopedia of Human Rights: Vol. 1, Oxford University Press, pp. 239–45
  166. **^** Sajoo, Amyn B (Spring 1990). "Islam and Human Rights: Congruence or Dichotomy". _Temple International and Comparative Law Journal_. **4** (1): 23–34. OCLC 81814299.  
  167. **^** Ali, Kecia (2003). "Progressive Muslims and Islamic jurisprudence: the necessity for critical engagement with marriage and divorce law". In Safi, Omid. _Progressive Muslims: On Justice, Gender, and Pluralism_. Oneworld. pp.  163–87. ISBN 978-1-78074-045-4. 
  168. **^** Bielefeldt, Heiner (2000). "'Western' versus 'Islamic' Human Rights Conceptions?: A Critique of Cultural Essentialism in the Discussion on Human Rights". _Political Theory_. **28** (1): 90–121. doi:10.1177/0090591700028001005. JSTOR 192285.  
  169. **^** Anver M. Emon, Mark Ellis, Benjamin Glahn (2012), Islamic Law and International Human Rights Law, Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0-19-964144-4[ _page  needed_]
  170. **^** Mayer, Ann Elizabeth (2016). "Islamic Law and Human Rights: Conundrums and Equivocations". In Gustafson, Carrie; Juviler, Peter H. _Religion and Human Rights: Competing Claims?: Competing Claims?_. Routledge. ISBN 978-1-315-50255-7.  [ _page  needed_]
  171. **^** Paul Kurtz, Austin Dacey, and Tom Flynn. "Defaming Human Rights". _Free Inquiry_. February/March 2009, Vol. 29, No. 2.
  172. **^** Glenn, H. Patrick (2014), pp. 199–205
  173. **^** Tibi, Bassam (2008). "The Return of the Sacred to Politics as a Constitutional Law The Case of the Shari'atization of Politics in Islamic Civilization". _Theoria_. **55** (115). doi:10.3167/th.2008.5511506. JSTOR 41802396.  
  174. **^** Carney, ABD Al-Hakeem (2003). "The Desacralisation of Power in Islam". _Religion, State and Society_. **31** (2): 203–19. doi:10.1080/09637490308281.  
  175. **^** "University of Minnesota Human Rights Library".  
  176. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Siraj Khan, Blasphemy against the Prophet, in Muhammad in History, Thought, and Culture (Editors: Coeli Fitzpatrick and Adam Hani Walker), ISBN 978-1610691772, pp. 59–67
  177. **^** R Ibrahim (2013), Crucified Again, ISBN 978-1621570257, pp. 100–01
  178. **^** Wiederhold, Lutz (1997). "Blasphemy against the Prophet Muhammad and his companions (sabb al-rasul, sabb al-sahabah): The introduction of the topic into shafi'i legal literature and its relevance for legal practice under Mamluk rule". _Journal of Semitic Studies_. **42** (1): 39–70. doi:10.1093/jss/XLII.1.39.  
  179. **^** Saeed, Abdullah; Hassan Saeed (2004). _Freedom of Religion, Apostasy and Islam_. Burlington VT: Ashgate Publishing Company. pp.  38–39. ISBN 978-0-7546-3083-8. 
  180. **^** "Blasphemy: Islamic Concept". _Encyclopedia of Religion_. **2**. Farmington Hills, MI: Thomson Gale. 2005. pp.  974–76. 
  181. **^** Ibn Taymiyyah (a Salafi, related to Hanbali school), _al-Sārim al-Maslūl ‘ala Shātim al-Rasūl_ (or, A ready sword against those who insult the Messenger), Published in 1297 AD in Arabic, Reprinted in 1975 and 2003 by Dar-ibn Hazm (Beirut), the book is on blasphemy/insulting Muhammad and the punishment per sharia
  182. **^** Jerusha Lamptey (2014), Never Wholly Other: A Muslima Theology of Religious Pluralism, Oxford University Press, Chapter 1 with footnotes 28, 29 p. 258
  183. **^** Carl Ernst (2005), "Blasphemy: Islamic Concept", Encyclopedia of Religion (Editor: Lindsay Jones), Vol 2, Macmillan Reference, ISBN 0-02-865735-7
  184. **^** Harun Omer, "The Invented Islam – 'Punishment for Blasphemy'", _TheSharia.com_ , 2015
  185. **^** An Anti-Blasphemy Measure Laid to Rest Nina Shea, National Review (MARCH 31, 2011)
  186. **^** Brian Winston (2014), The Rushdie Fatwa and After: A Lesson to the Circumspect, Palgrave Macmillan, ISBN 978-1137388599, p. 74, Quote: "(In the case of blasphemy and Salman Rushdie) the death sentence it pronounced was grounded in a jurisprudential gloss on the Surah al-Ahzab (33:57)"
  187. **^** Bad-mouthing: Pakistan’s blasphemy laws legitimise intolerance The Economist (November 29, 2014)
  188. **^** Blasphemy: Dangerous words The Economist (January 7, 2015)
  189. **^** Which countries still outlaw apostasy and blasphemy? Pew Research Center, United States (May 2014)
  190. **^** "Religious conversion and sharia law, Lionel Beehner (2007), Council on Foreign Relations (Washington DC)". _Council on Foreign Relations_.  
  191. **^** Feldman, Noah (2008). _The Fall and Rise of the Islamic State_. Princeton University Press. ISBN 978-0-691-12045-4.  [ _page  needed_]
  192. **^** Stahnke, Tad (January 1999). "Proselytism and the Freedom to Change Religion in International Human Rights Law". _Brigham Young University Law Review_. **1999** (1): 251–350.  
  193. **^** ABDULLAHI AHMED AN-NA’IM, ISLAM AND THE SECULAR STATE: NEGOTIATING THE FUTURE OF SHARI’A 14 (2008)[ _page  needed_]
  194. **^** "Laws Penalizing Blasphemy, Apostasy and Defamation of Religion are Widespread". _Pew Research Center's Religion & Public Life Project_. 21 November 2012. Archived from the original on 8 May 2013. 
  195. **^** Freedom of Religion, Apostasy and Islam by Abdullah Saeed and Hassan Saeed (Mar 30, 2004), ISBN 978-0-7546-3083-8[ _page  needed_]
  196. **^** "Human Rights Watch (February 2012), Writer faces apostasy trial in Saudi Arabia".  
  197. **^** "The Fate of Infidels and Apostates under Islam". Archived from the original on August 17, 2013. Retrieved  July 28, 2013. 
  198. **^** " _64 percent of Muslims in Egypt and Pakistan support the death penalty for leaving Islam_ , Washington Post, May 1, 2013". _Washington Post_.  
  199. **^** "The World's Muslims: Religion, Politics and Society, April 30 2013" (PDF). Retrieved 2016-03-22. 
  200. **^** Arzi, Donna E. (2002). "The Role of Compulsion in Islamic Conversion: Jihad, Dhimma and Ridda". _Buffalo Human Rights Law Review_. **8** : 15–44. OCLC 781621291. 
  201. **^** Shafi'i: Rawda al-talibin, 10.7, Hanafi: Ibn 'Abidin: Radd al-muhtar 3.287, Maliki: al-Dardir: al-Sharh al-saghir, 4.435, and Hanbali: al-Bahuti: Kashshaf al-qina', 6.170 (see The Struggle to Constitute and Sustain Productive Orders: Vincent Ostrom's Quest to Understand Human Affairs), Mark Sproule-Jones et al (2008), Lexington Books, ISBN 978-0739126288)[ _page  needed_]
  202. **^** Siddiqui, Muhammad Iqbal (1979). _The Penal Law of Islam_. Tahore: Kazi. pp.  40–59. OCLC 928154348. 
  203. **^** RAHIM, ABDUR. The Principles of Muhammadan Jurisprudence According to the Hanafi, Maliki, Shafi'i, and Hanbali Schools (1911), Westport CT, Hyperion Press, see 1981 Reprint[ _page  needed_]
  204. **^** Khadduri 1955, p.  [ _page  needed_].
  205. **^** al-Zuhayli, Wahbah _Al-Fiqh, al-Islami wa Adillatuhu_ , 8 vols., 3rd edition, Dar al-Fikr, Damascus (1989)[ _page  needed_]
  206. **^** Uddin, Asma (2010). "Religious Freedom Implications of Sharia Implementation in Aceh, Indonesia". _University of St Thomas Law Journal_. **7** (3): 603–48. SSRN 1885776 .  
  207. **^** Saeed, Abdullah, and Hassan Saeed, eds. Freedom of religion, apostasy and Islam. Ashgate Publishing, 2004.[ _page  needed_]
  208. **^** "Laws: and Iran, GayLawNet". Gaylawnet.com. Retrieved  2012-04-04. 
  209. **^** "Laws: Saudi Arabia, GayLawNet". Gaylawnet.com. 2010-11-08. Retrieved  2012-04-04. 
  210. **^** [ _dead link_ ]"Aceh Passes Stoning Law". _The Straits Times_. September 14, 2009. Retrieved  December 22, 2009. 
  211. **^** "Indonesia's Aceh: Two gay men sentenced to 85 lashes". _BBC News_. 2017-05-17. Retrieved  2017-05-17. 
  212. **^** _Rough Guide to South East Asia: Third Edition_. Rough Guides. August 2005. p. 74\. ISBN 1-84353-437-1.  
  213. **^** Diska PutriY, Pamungkas & Dessy Aswim. "Indonesia Still Far From a Rainbow Nation". Retrieved 29 May 2014. 
  214. **^** Esack, Farid (2014). "Islam and Gender Justice: Beyond Simplistic Apologia". In Raines, John C.; Maguire, Daniel C. _What Men Owe to Women: Men's Voices from World Religions_. SUNY. pp.  187–210. ISBN 978-0-7914-9155-3. 
  215. **^** Kusha, Hamid R. (2007). "Qur'anic Perspectives on Wife Abuse". In Jackson, Nicky Ali. _Encyclopedia of Domestic Violence_. Taylor  & Francis. pp. 595–602. ISBN 978-0-415-96968-0. 
  216. **^** "Surah 4:34 (An-Nisaa), Alim – Translated by Mohammad Asad, Gibraltar (1980)".  
  217. **^** Salhi and Grami (2011), Gender and Violence in the Middle East and North Africa, Florence (Italy), European University Institute Archived September 27, 2013, at the Wayback Machine.
  218. **^** Rohe, Mathias (2009). "Shari'a in a European Context". In Grillo, Ralpho; Ballard, Roger; Ferrari, Alessandro; Hoekema, André J.; Maussen, Marcel; Shah, Prakash. _Legal Practice and Cultural Diversity_. Ashgate. pp.  93–114. ISBN 978-0-7546-7547-1. 
  219. **^** Funder, Anna (1993). " _De Minimis Non Curat Lex_ : The Clitoris, Culture and the Law". _Transnational Law & Contemporary Problems_. **3** (2): 417–67.  
  220. **^** Anwar, Zainah (2005). "Law-Making in the Name of Islam: Implications for Democratic Governance". In Nathan, K S; Kamali, Mohammad Hashim. _Islam in Southeast Asia: Political, Social and Strategic Challenges for the 21st Century_. Institute of Southeast Asian Studies. pp.  121–34. ISBN 978-981-230-283-0. 
  221. **^** Bakht, Natasha (2007). "Family Arbitration Using Sharia Law: Examining Ontario's Arbitration Act and its Impact on Women". _Muslim World Journal of Human Rights_. **1** (1). doi:10.2202/1554-4419.1022. SSRN 1121953 .  
  222. **^** _CEDAW and Muslim Family Laws: In Search of Common Ground_. Musawah. 2012.  [ _page  needed_]
  223. **^** Brandt, Michele; Kaplan, Jeffrey A. (1995). "The Tension between Women's Rights and Religious Rights: Reservations to Cedaw by Egypt, Bangladesh and Tunisia". _Journal of Law and Religion_. **12** (1): 105–42. doi:10.2307/1051612. JSTOR 1051612.  
  224. **^** "Lebanon – IRIN, United Nations Office of Humanitarian Affairs (2009)". _IRINnews_.  
  225. **^** "UAE: Spousal Abuse never a Right". Human Rights Watch. October 19, 2010.  
  226. **^** "Child Marriage is a Death Sentence for Many Young Girls" (PDF). UNICEF. 2012. 
  227. **^** Nour, Nawal M. (2006). "Health Consequences of Child Marriage in Africa". _Emerging Infectious Diseases_. **12** (11): 1644–49. doi:10.3201/eid1211.060510. PMC 3372345 . PMID 17283612.  
  228. **^** Video on YouTube
  229. **^** "Kendra Heideman and Mona Youssef, Challenges to Women's Security in the MENA Region, Wilson Center (March, 2013)" (PDF). Retrieved 2016-03-22. 
  230. **^** "Sanja Kelly (2010) New Survey Assesses Women's Freedom in the Middle East, Freedom House (funded by US Department of State's Middle East Partnership Initiative)".  
  231. **^** Horrie & Chippindale 1991, p. 49.
  232. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Powers, David S. (1993). "The Islamic Inheritance System: a Socio-Historical Approach". _Arab Law Quarterly_. **8** (1): 13–29. doi:10.1163/157302593X00285. JSTOR 3381490.  
  233. **^** Badawi, Jamal A. (September 1971). "The Status of Women in Islam". _Al-Ittihad Journal of Islamic Studies_. **8** (2).  [ _page  needed_]
  234. **^** Feldman, Noah (March 16, 2008). "Why Shariah?". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  September 17, 2011. 
  235. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_
    * Bernard Lewis (2002), What Went Wrong?, ISBN 0-19-514420-1, pp. 82–83;
    * Brunschvig. 'Abd; Encyclopedia of Islam, Brill, 2nd Edition, Vol 1, pp. 13–40.
  236. **^** ([Quran 16:71], [Quran 24:33],[Quran 30:28])
  237. **^** Slavery in Islam BBC Religions Archives
  238. **^** Mazrui, Ali A. (1997). "Islamic and Western Values". _Foreign Affairs_. **76** (5): 118–32. doi:10.2307/20048203. JSTOR 20048203.  
  239. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ali, K. (2010). Marriage and slavery in early Islam. Harvard University Press.[ _page  needed_]
  240. **^** Sikainga, Ahmad A. (1996). Slaves Into Workers: Emancipation and Labor in Colonial Sudan. University of Texas Press. ISBN 0-292-77694-2.
  241. **^** Tucker, Judith E.; Nashat, Guity (1999). Women in the Middle East and North Africa. Indiana University Press. ISBN 0-253-21264-2.
  242. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Lovejoy, Paul (2000). _Transformations in Slavery: A History of Slavery in Africa_. Cambridge University Press. pp.  16–17. ISBN 978-0521784306. The religious requirement that new slaves be pagans and need for continued imports to maintain slave population made Africa an important source of slaves for the Islamic world. (...) In Islamic tradition, slavery was perceived as a means of converting non-Muslims. One task of the master was religious instruction and theoretically Muslims could not be enslaved. Conversion (of a non-Muslim to Islam) did not automatically lead to emancipation, but assimilation into Muslim society was deemed a prerequisite for emancipation. 
  243. **^** Jean Pierre Angenot; et al. (2008). _Uncovering the History of Africans in Asia_. Brill Academic. p.  60\. ISBN 978-9004162914. Islam imposed upon the Muslim master an obligation to convert non-Muslim slaves and become members of the greater Muslim society. Indeed, the daily observation of well defined Islamic religious rituals was the outward manifestation of conversion without which emancipation was impossible. 
  244. **^** Kecia Ali; (Editor: Bernadette J. Brooten). _Slavery and Sexual Ethics in Islam, in Beyond Slavery: Overcoming Its Religious and Sexual Legacies_. Palgrave Macmillan. pp.  107–19. ISBN 978-0230100169. The slave who bore her master's child became known in Arabic as an "umm walad"; she could not be sold, and she was automatically freed upon her master's death. [p. 113] CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list (link)
  245. **^** Hafez, Mohammed (September 2006). "Why Muslims Rebel". _Al-Ittihad Journal of Islamic Studies_. **1** (2).  
  246. **^** Tai, Emily Sohmer (2007). "Book Reviews: Hassan S. Khalilieh, _Admiralty and Maritime Laws in the Mediterranean Sea (ca. 800–1050): The "Kitāb Akriyat al-Sufun" vis-à-vis the "Nomos Rhodion Nautikos"_ ". _Medieval Encounters_. **13** (3): 608–12. doi:10.1163/157006707X222812.  
  247. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Makdisi, George (1989). "Scholasticism and Humanism in Classical Islam and the Christian West". _Journal of the American Oriental Society_. **109** (2): 175–82. doi:10.2307/604423. JSTOR 604423.  
  248. **^** Stewart, Devin J. (2005). "Degrees, or Ijaza". In Josef W. Meri. _Medieval Islamic Civilization: An Encyclopedia_. Routledge. p.  203\. ISBN 9780415966917. 
  249. **^** Kuran, Timur (Fall 2005). "The Absence of the Corporation in Islamic Law: Origins and Persistence". _The American Journal of Comparative Law_. **53** (4): 785–834. JSTOR 30038724.  
  250. **^** Kuran, Timur (2005). "The logic of financial westernization in the Middle East". _Journal of Economic Behavior & Organization_. **56** (4): 593–615. doi:10.1016/j.jebo.2004.04.002.  
  251. **^** "Why the Middle East Is Economically Underdeveloped – Historical Mechanisms of Institutional Stagnation".

###  Sources[edit]

  * An-Na'im, Abdullahi Ahmed. "Islamic Foundations of Religious Human Rights" in _Religious Human Rights in Global Perspective: Religious Perspectives._ John Witte Jr.  & Johan D. van der Vyver eds. (1996). Springer Publishing ISBN 978-9041101778.
  * Brown, Jonathan A. C. (2009). "Maṣlaḥah". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  (Subscription required (help)). 
  * Calder, Norman; Hooker, Michael Barry (2007). "S̲h̲arīʿa". In P. Bearman, Th. Bianquis, C.E. Bosworth, E. van Donzel, W.P. Heinrichs. _Encyclopaedia of Islam_. **9** (2nd ed.). Brill. pp.  321–26. CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter (link)
  * Calder, Norman (2009). "Law. Legal Thought and Jurisprudence". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
  * Duderija, Adis (2014). Adis Duderija, ed. _Contemporary Muslim Reformist Thought and Maqāṣid cum Maṣlaḥa Approaches to Islamic Law: An Introduction_. Maqasid al-Shari’a and Contemporary Reformist Muslim Thought: An Examination. Springer.  
  * Gleave, R.M. (2012). "Maḳāṣid al-Sharīʿa". In P. Bearman, Th. Bianquis, C.E. Bosworth, E. van Donzel, W.P. Heinrichs. _Encyclopaedia of Islam_ (2nd ed.). Brill. doi:10.1163/1573-3912_islam_SIM_8809.  (Subscription required (help)). CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter (link)
  * Glenn, H. Patrick (2014). _Legal Traditions of the World  – Sustainable Diversity in Law_ (5th edition), Oxford University Press, ISBN 978-0199669837.
  * Hallaq, Wael B. (2009). _An Introduction to Islamic Law_. Cambridge University Press.  
  * Harnischfeger, Johannes (2008). _Democratization and Islamic Law  – The Sharia Conflict in Nigeria_. Frankfurt; New York City: Campus Verlag and Chicago: University of Chicago Press (distributor). ISBN 978-3-593-38256-2.
  * Horrie, Chris; Chippindale, Peter (1991). _What Is Islam? A Comprehensive Introduction_. Virgin Books. ISBN 0-7535-0827-3.  
  * Hussin, Iza (2014). "Sunni Schools of Jurisprudence". In Emad El-Din Shahin. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of Islam and Politics_. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref:oiso/9780199739356.001.0001/acref-9780199739356-e-0416 (inactive 2017-09-12).  (Subscription required (help)). 
  * Jokisch, Benjamin (2015). "Origins of and Influences on Islamic law". In Anver M. Emon and Rumee Ahmed. _The Oxford Handbook of Islamic Law_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/oxfordhb/9780199679010.001.0001/oxfordhb-9780199679010-e-12 (inactive 2017-09-12).  (Subscription required (help)). CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter (link)
  * Khadduri, Majid (1955). _War and Peace in the Law of Islam_. Baltimore: Johns Hopkins. OCLC 647084498.  
  * Kamali, Mohammad Hashim (1999). John Esposito, ed. _Law and Society_. The Oxford History of Islam. Oxford University Press (Kindle edition).  
  * Khadduri, Majid; Liebesny, Herbert J., eds. (1955). _Law in the Middle East_. Middle East Institute. OCLC 578890367.  
  * Lapidus, Ira M. (2014). _A History of Islamic Societies_. Cambridge University Press (Kindle edition). ISBN 978-0-521-51430-9.  
  * Mayer, Ann Elizabeth (2009). "Law. Modern Legal Reform". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
  * Opwis, Felicitas (2007). Abbas Amanat, Frank Griffel, eds. _Islamic Law and Legal Change: The Concept of Maslaha in Classical and Contemporary Legal Theory_. Shari'a: Islamic Law in the Contemporary Context. Stanford University Press (Kindle edition).  CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter (link)
  * Otto, Jan Michiel (2008). _Sharia and National Law in Muslim Countries: Tensions and Opportunities for Dutch and EU Foreign Policy_ (PDF). Amsterdam University Press. ISBN 978-90-8728-048-2. 
  * Otto, Jan Michiel, ed. (2010). _Sharia Incorporated: A Comparative Overview of the Legal Systems of Twelve Muslim Countries in Past and Present_. Leiden University Press. ISBN 978-94-0060-017-1.  
  * Rabb, Intisar A. (2009). "Law. Civil Law & Courts". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
  * Rabb, Intisar A. (2009b). "Fiqh". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780195305135.001.0001/acref-9780195305135-e-1150 (inactive 2017-09-12).  (Subscription required (help)). 
  * Rabb, Intisar A. (2009c). "Ijtihād". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780195305135.001.0001/acref-9780195305135-e-0354 (inactive 2017-09-12).  (Subscription required (help)). 
  * Schneider, Irene (2014). "Fiqh". In Emad El-Din Shahin. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of Islam and Politics_. Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref:oiso/9780199739356.001.0001/acref-9780199739356-e-0171 (inactive 2017-09-12).  (Subscription required (help)). 
  * Vikør, Knut S. (2014). "Sharīʿah". In Emad El-Din Shahin. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of Islam and Politics_. Oxford University Press.  
  * Ziadeh, Farhat J. (2009). "Uṣūl al-fiqh". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press. doi:10.1093/acref/9780195305135.001.0001/acref-9780195305135-e-0831 (inactive 2017-09-12).  (Subscription required (help)). 
  * Ziadeh, Farhat J. (2009b). "Law. Sunnī Schools of Law". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  
  * Ziadeh, Farhat J. (2009c). "Criminal Law". In John L. Esposito. _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_. Oxford: Oxford University Press.  

## Further reading[edit]

  * Ali, Abdullah Yusuf (2000). _The Holy Qur'an_ (Translated by Abdullah Yusuf Ali). Ware, Hertfordshire, England: Wordsworth Editions. ISBN 978-1-85326-782-6. A popular translation of the Quran.
  * Coulson, Noel J. (1964). _A History of Islamic Law_. Edinburgh: Edinburgh U.P.
  * Elliesie, Hatem (2014): _Binnenpluralität des Islamischen Rechts: Diversität religiöser Normativität rechtsdogmatisch- und methodisch betrachtet_, SFB Governance Working Paper Series, Collaborative Research Center 700 „Governance in Areas of Limited Statehood", No. 54, ISSN 1863-6896.
  * Hallaq, Wael B. (2009). _An Introduction to Islamic Law_. Cambridge: Cambridge U.P. ISBN 978-0-52167-873-5
  * Hussain, Jamila (2011). _Islam: Its Law and Society_ (3rd edition). Annandale, N.S.W., Australia: The Federation Press. ISBN 1-86287-499-9. OCLC 742018517. A modern discourse on Sharia law.
  * Khan, Muhammad Muhsin (1996). _The English Translation of Ṣaḥīḥ Al Bukhārī with the Arabic Text_. Alexandria, Va.: Al-Saadawi Publications. ISBN 978-1-881963-59-2. OCLC 35673415. The complete translation (in nine volumes) of a popular Sunni collection of hadith.
  * Mahmassani, Maher (2014). _Islam in Retrospect: Recovering the Message_. Olive Branch Pr. ISBN 1566569222.  
  * Mahmassani, Sobhi (1961). _The Philosophy of Jurisprudence in Islam,_ translated by Farhat J. Ziadeh. Leiden: Brill.
  * Mahmassani, Sobhi (1966). _The Principles of International Law in the Light of Islamic Doctrine_ , publications of The Hague Academy of International Law, Leiden.
  * Potz, Richard (2011). _Islamic Law and the Transfer of European Law_. Mainz: European History Online, Institute of European History. Retrieved: November 28, 2011.
  * Nuh Ha Mim Keller (ed., trans.), _Reliance of the Traveller: Classic Manual of Islamic Sacred Law_ , Amana Publications, revised edition 1997, ISBN 9780-915957-72-9
  * Schacht, Joseph (1964). _An Introduction to Islamic Law_. Oxford: Clarendon
  * Schacht, Joseph (1950). _The Origins of Muhammadan Jurisprudence_. Oxford: Clarendon

##  External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Sharia**_.  
---|---  
|  Look up _**sharia**_ in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.  
---|---  
|  Wikiquote has quotations related to: _**Sharia**_  
---|---  
  
  * _Islamic law_ – in _The Oxford Dictionary of Islam_ , via Oxford Islamic Studies Online
  * _Sharia_ by Knut S. Vikør – In _The Oxford Encyclopedia of Islam and Politics_ , via Bridging Cultures, National Endowment for the Humanities & George Mason University
  * _Law_ by Norman Calder et al – In _The Oxford Encyclopedia of the Islamic World_ , via Oxford Islamic Studies
  * UNAA site on sharia in Muslim Countries – United Nations
  * Sharia Law in the International Legal Sphere – Yale University
  * Private Arrangements: 'Recognizing Sharia' in Britain – anthropologist John R. Bowen explains the working of Britain's sharia courts in a _Boston Review_ article
  * Division of Inheritance According to Qur'an
  * "Explanation of "The Reward of the Omnipotent" is a manuscript, in Arabic, from the late 19th or early 20th century about Sharia

  * v
  * t
  * e

Islam topics  
  
---  
  
**Outline of Islam**  
  
| Beliefs |

  * God in Islam
  * _Tawhid_
  * Muhammad
    * In Islam
  * Prophets of Islam

  
  
---|---  
Five Pillars |

  * _Shahada_
  * _Salah_
  * _Sawm_
  * _Zakat_
  * _Hajj_

  
  
  * History
  * Leaders

|

  * Timeline of Muslim history
  * Conquests
  * Golden Age
  * Historiography
  * _Sahaba_
  * _Ahl al-Bayt_
  * Shi'a Imams
  * Caliphates
    * _Rashidun_
    * Umayyad
    * Abbasid
    * Córdoba
    * Fatimid
    * Almohad
    * Sokoto
    * Ottoman

  
  
Religious texts |

  * Quran
  * Sunnah
  * Hadith
  * Tafsir
  * Seerah

  
  
Denominations |

  * Sunni
  * Shia
  * Ibadi
  * Black Muslims
  * Ahmadiyya
  * Quranism
  * Non-denominational

  
  
  * Life
  * Culture

|

  * Animals
  * Art
  * Calendar
  * Children
  * Clothing
  * Holidays
  * Mosques
  * Madrasas
  * Moral teachings
  * Music
  * Philosophy
  * Political aspects
  * _Qurbani_
  * Science
    * medieval
  * Social welfare
  * Women
  * LGBT
  * Islam by country

  
  
|

  * Law
  * Jurisprudence

  
  
---  
  
| Economics |

  * Banking
  * Economic history
  * _Sukuk_
  * _Takaful_
  * _Murabaha_
  * _Riba_

  
  
---|---  
Hygiene |

  * _Ghusl_
  * _Miswak_
  * _Najis_
  * _Tayammum_
  * Toilet
  * _Wudu_

  
  
  * Marriage
  * Sex

|

  * Marriage contract
  * _Mahr_
  * _Mahram_
  * Masturbation
  * _Nikah_
  * _Nikah Mut‘ah_
  * _Zina_

  
  
Other aspects |

  * Cleanliness
  * Criminal
  * _Dhabiĥa_
  * _Dhimmi_
  * Divorce
  * Diet
  * Ethics
  * Etiquette
  * Gambling
  * Gender segregation
  * Honorifics
  * _Hudud_
  * Inheritance
  * _Jizya_
  * Leadership
  * _Ma malakat aymanukum_
  * Military
    * POWs
  * Slavery
  * Sources of law
  * Theological
    * _baligh_
    * _kalam_

  
  
|

 Islamic studies  
  
---  
  
| Arts |

  * Arabesque
  * Architecture
  * Calligraphy
  * Carpets
  * Gardens
  * Geometric patterns
  * Music
  * Pottery

  
  
---|---  
Medieval science |

  * Alchemy and chemistry
  * Astronomy
  * Cosmology
  * Geography and cartography
  * Mathematics
  * Medicine
  * Ophthalmology
  * Physics

  
  
Philosophy |

  * Early
  * Contemporary
  * Eschatology
  * Theological

  
  
Other areas |

  * Astrology
  * Creationism (evolution)
  * Feminism
  * Inventions
  * Liberalism and progressivism
  * Literature
    * poetry
  * Psychology
  * _Shu'ubiyya_
  * Conversion to mosques

  
  
| Other religions |

  * Christianity
    * Mormonism
    * Protestantism
  * Hinduism
  * Jainism
  * Judaism
  * Sikhism

  
  
---|---  
Related topics |

  * Apostasy
  * Criticism of Islam
  * Cultural Muslim
  * Islamism
    * Criticism
    * Post-Islamism
    * Qutbism
    * Salafi movement
  * Islamophobia
    * Incidents
  * Islamic terrorism
  * Islamic view of miracles
  * Domestic violence
  * Nursing
  * Persecution of Muslims
  * Quran and miracles
  * Symbolism

  
  
  * Islam portal
  * Category

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Law  
  
---  
Core subjects |

  * Administrative law
  * Constitutional law
  * Contract
  * Criminal law
  * Deed
  * Equity
  * Evidence
  * International law
  * Law of obligations
  * Procedure
    * Civil
    * Criminal
  * Property law
  * Public law
  * Restitution
  * Statutory law
  * Tort

  
  
Other subjects |

  * Agricultural law
  * Aviation law
  * Banking law
  * Bankruptcy
  * Commercial law
  * Competition law
  * Conflict of laws
  * Construction law
  * Consumer protection
  * Corporate law
  * Cyberlaw
  * Election law
  * Energy law
  * Entertainment law
  * Environmental law
  * Family law
  * Financial regulation
  * Health law
  * Immigration law
  * Intellectual property
  * International criminal law
  * International human rights
  * International slavery laws
  * Labour
  * Law of war
  * Legal archaeology
  * Legal fiction
  * Maritime law
  * Media law
  * Military law
  * Probate
    * Estate
    * Will and testament
  * Product liability
  * Public international law
  * Space law
  * Sports law
  * Tax law
  * Transport law
  * Trust law
  * Women in law

  
  
Sources of law |

  * Charter
  * Constitution
  * Custom
  * Divine right
  * Human rights
  * Natural and legal rights
  * Case law
    * Precedent

  
  
Law making |

  * Ballot measure
  * Codification
  * Decree
    * Edict
    * Executive order
    * Proclamation
  * Legislation
    * Delegated legislation
    * Regulation
    * Rulemaking
  * Promulgation
  * Repeal
  * Treaty
  * Statutory law
    * Statute
    * Act of Parliament
    * Act of Congress (US)

  
  
Legal systems |

  * Civil law
  * Common law
  * Chinese law
  * Legal pluralism
  * Religious law
    * Canon law
    * Hindu law
    * Jain law
    * Jewish law
    * Sharia
  * Roman law
  * Socialist law
  * Statutory law
  * Xeer
  * Yassa

  
  
Legal theory |

  * Critical legal studies
  * Comparative law
  * Feminist
  * Law and economics
  * Legal formalism
  * History
  * Natural law
  * International legal theory
  * Principle of legality
  * Rule of law
  * Sociology

  
  
Jurisprudence |

  * Adjudication
  * Administration of justice
  * Criminal justice
  * Court-martial
  * Dispute resolution
  * Fiqh
  * Lawsuit/Litigation
  * Legal opinion
  * Legal remedy
  * Judge
    * Justice of the peace
    * Magistrate
  * Judgment
  * Judicial review
  * Jurisdiction
  * Jury
  * Justice
  * Practice of law
    * Attorney
    * Barrister
    * Counsel
    * Lawyer
    * Legal representation
    * Prosecutor
    * Solicitor
  * Question of fact
  * Question of law
  * Trial
  * Trial advocacy
  * Trier of fact
  * Verdict

  
  
Legal institutions |

  * Bureaucracy
  * The bar
  * The bench
  * Civil society
  * Court
  * Election commission
  * Executive
  * Judiciary
  * Law enforcement
  * Legal education
    * Law school
  * Legislature
  * Military
  * Police
  * Political party
  * Tribunal

  
  
  * **Category**
  * **Index**
  * **Outline**
  * **Portal**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Religion and politics  
  
---  
  
|

General concepts  
  
---  
  
  * Anti-clericalism
    * Anticlericalism and Freemasonry
  * Caesaropapism
  * Clericalism
    * Clerical fascism
  * Confessionalism
  * Divine rule
  * Engaged Spirituality
  * Feminist theology
    * Thealogy
    * Womanist theology
  * Identity politics
  * Political religion
  * Progressive Reconstructionism
  * Religious anarchism
  * Religious anti-Masonry
  * Religious anti-Zionism
  * Religious communism
  * Religious humanism
  * Religious law
  * Religious nationalism
  * Religious pacifism
    * Religion and peacebuilding
  * Religious police
  * Religious rejection of politics
  * Religious segregation
  * Religious separatism
  * Religious socialism
  * Religious views on same-sex marriage
  * Secularism
    * Laïcité
    * Secular religion
    * Separation of church and state
  * Spiritual left
  * State atheism
  * State religion
  * Theocracy
  * Theonomy

  
  
|

Christianity and politics  
  
---  
  
  * Blaine Amendment
  * Christian anarchism
  * Christian anti-communism
  * Christian anti-Masonry
    * Papal ban
  * Christian anti-Zionism
  * Christian communism
  * Christian corporatism
  * Christian democracy
  * Christian egalitarianism
  * Christian environmentalism
    * Evangelical environmentalism
  * Christian fascism
    * German Christians
    * National Catholicism
    * Positive Christianity
    * Protestant Reich Church
  * Christian feminism
    * Mormon feminism
  * Christian humanism
  * Christian law
  * Christian left
    * Evangelical left
  * Christian libertarianism
  * Christian pacifism
    * Christian peacemaking
  * Christian reconstructionism
  * Christian republic
  * Christian right
  * Christian socialism
    * In Utah
  * Christian state
  * Christian Zionism
  * Cisalpinism
  * Dominion Theology
  * Febronianism
  * Gallicanism
  * Liberation theology
  * Papal state
  * Pillarisation
  * Political Catholicism
  * Relations between the Catholic Church and the state
    * In Argentina
  * Sphere sovereignty
  * Subsidiarity
  * Temporal power
  * Theodemocracy
  * Ultramontanism
    * Neo-ultramontanism

  
  
|

Islam and politics  
  
---  
  
  * Hui pan-nationalism
  * Human Rights in Islam
  * Imamate
  * Islamic anarchism
  * Islamic anti-Masonry
  * Islamic anti-Zionism
  * Islamic democracy
  * Islamic fascism
  * Islamic feminism
  * Islamic law
    * by country
  * Islamic nationalism
    * In Pakistan
    * In South Asia
  * Islamic pacifism
  * Islamic republic
  * Islamic socialism
  * Islamic state
  * Islamic Zionism
  * Islamism
    * Criticism
  * Islamization
  * Khilafat
  * Petro-Islam
  * Political quietism
  * Taliban
    * Talibanization
  * Two-nation theory

  
  
|

Judaism and politics  
  
---  
  
  * Halachic state
  * Jewish anarchism
  * Jewish anti-Zionism
    * Haredim
  * Jewish Autonomism
  * Jewish democracy
  * Jewish fascism 
    * Kahanism
    * Revisionist Maximalism
  * Jewish feminism
  * Jewish law
  * Jewish left
  * Jewish pacifism
  * Jewish political movements
  * Jewish right
  * Jewish secularism
  * Jewish socialism
    * Bundism
  * Humanistic Judaism
  * Poale Zion
  * Religious Zionism
  * World Agudath Israel

  
  
|

Hinduism and politics  
  
---  
  
  * Akhand Bharat
  * Hindu feminism
  * Gandhism
  * Hindu law
  * Hindu modernism
  * Hindu nationalism
    * Hindutva
    * Hindu Rashtra
    * Panun Kashmir
    * Bangabhumi
  * Hindu revolution
  * Hindu revivalism
  * Hindu environmentalism
  * Integral humanism
  * Indigenous Aryans
  * Rama Rajya
  * Saffronisation
  * Shuddhi
  * Uniform civil code

  
  
|

Buddhism and politics  
  
---  
  
  * Buddhists anti-communism
  * Buddhist feminism
  * Buddhist law
  * Buddhist modernism
  * Buddhist nationalism
    * 969 Movement
    * Nichirenism
    * Sinhalese Buddhist nationalism
  * Buddhist socialism
  * Engaged Buddhism
  * Humanistic Buddhism
  * Secular Buddhism

  
  
|

Other  
  
---  
  
  * American civil religion
  * Imperial cult
    * Ancient Rome
  * Gottgläubig
  * _Juche_
  * Khalistan movement
  * Neopaganist feminism
  * Religious aspects of Nazism
    * Creativity (religion)
    * Nazi Satanism
  * Personality cult
  * State Shinto

  
  
Authority control |

  * GND: 7503557-1
  * NDL: 00564590

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Sharia&oldid=816685436"

Categories:

  * Arabic words and phrases
  * Islamic jurisprudence
  * Islamic terminology
  * Legal codes
  * Sharia

Hidden categories:

  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from April 2016
  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from March 2016
  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from May 2016
  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from June 2016
  * Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from April 2016
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Pages containing links to subscription-only content
  * Pages with DOIs inactive since 2017
  * CS1 maint: Uses editors parameter
  * Wikipedia articles needing page number citations from July 2016
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from September 2011
  * CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list
  * Articles needing expert attention with no reason or talk parameter
  * Articles needing expert attention from January 2017
  * All articles needing expert attention
  * Islam articles needing expert attention
  * Articles containing Arabic-language text
  * Articles that may contain original research from March 2017
  * All articles that may contain original research
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2016
  * Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from May 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikinews
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * Alemannisch
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Авар
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Башҡортса
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Български
  * བོད་ཡིག
  * Bosanski
  * Буряад
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * ދިވެހިބަސް
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kurdî
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * മലയാളം
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پښتو
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Тоҷикӣ
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 文言
  * Winaray
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 23 December 2017, at 00:17.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

