

# Squirrel Hill (Pittsburgh)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from Squirrel Hill)

Jump to: navigation, search

"Squirrel Hill" redirects here. For the neighborhood in Philadelphia, see
Squirrel Hill, Philadelphia. For the archaeological site east of Pittsburgh,
see Squirrel Hill Site.

Squirrel Hill North  
---  
Neighborhood of Pittsburgh  
  
Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill in 2005.  
  
Country | United States  
State | Pennsylvania  
County | Allegheny County  
City | Pittsburgh  
Area[1]  
 • Total | 1.222 sq mi (3.16 km2)  
Population (2010)[2]  
 • Total | 11,363  
 • Density | 9,300/sq mi (3,600/km2)  
Squirrel Hill South  
---  
Neighborhood of Pittsburgh  
Country | United States  
State | Pennsylvania  
County | Allegheny County  
City | Pittsburgh  
Area[1]  
 • Total | 2.671 sq mi (6.92 km2)  
Population (2010)[2]  
 • Total | 15,110  
 • Density | 5,700/sq mi (2,200/km2)  
Murray Hill Avenue Historic District

City of Pittsburgh Historic District  
  
---  
  
Pittsburgh Landmark — PHLF  
  
Location | 1010–1201 Murray Hill Avenue (Squirrel Hill), Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, USA  
Coordinates | 40°26′59″N 79°55′41″W﻿ / ﻿40.449669°N 79.928119°W﻿ / 40.449669;
-79.928119  
City designated | April 3, 2000[3]  
PHLF designated | 2004[4]  
  
**Squirrel Hill** is a residential neighborhood in the East End of Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States. The city officially divides it into two
neighborhoods, **Squirrel Hill North** and **Squirrel Hill South** , but it is
almost universally treated as a single neighborhood.

## Contents

  * 1 Geography
  * 2 Surrounding neighborhoods
  * 3 Demographics
  * 4 History
    * 4.1 Origins
      * 4.1.1 Civil War
      * 4.1.2 Incorporation into Pittsburgh
  * 5 Cultural life
  * 6 Parks
  * 7 Jewish community
  * 8 Education
    * 8.1 Public schools
    * 8.2 Private schools
    * 8.3 Higher education
  * 9 Local government
  * 10 Notable people
  * 11 See also
  * 12 Notes and references
    * 12.1 Further reading
  * 13 External links

## Geography[edit]

Squirrel Hill is located at 40°26′17″N 79°55′23″W﻿ / ﻿40.438072°N 79.922972°W﻿
/ 40.438072; -79.922972Coordinates: 40°26′17″N 79°55′23″W﻿ / ﻿40.438072°N
79.922972°W﻿ / 40.438072; -79.922972 and has two ZIP codes: 15217 and 15232.

## Surrounding neighborhoods[edit]

Squirrel Hill North has five borders with the Pittsburgh neighborhoods of
Shadyside to the north, Point Breeze to the east, Squirrel Hill South to the
south, Central Oakland to the southwest and North Oakland to the west.

Squirrel Hill South has nine land borders with the Pittsburgh neighborhoods of
Squirrel Hill North to the north and northwest, Point Breeze to the northeast,
Regent Square to the east, Swisshelm Park to the southeast, Glen Hazel and
Hazelwood to the south-southwest, Greenfield to the southwest, and South
Oakland and Central Oakland to the west. Across the Monongahela River to the
south-southeast, Squirrel Hill South runs adjacent with Homestead.

## Demographics[edit]

As of the 2010 Census,[5] Squirrel Hill North has a population of 11363,
having grown 9% since 2000. Squirrel Hill North's population is 75% White, 17%
Asian, 4% Hispanic, and 3% black. Of the 3892 housing units in Squirrel Hill
North, 93% are occupied.

Squirrel Hill South has a population of 15110, up 4% since 2000, of whom 82%
are White, 11% are Asian, 3% are Hispanic, and 3% are Black. There are 7514
housing units which have a 95% occupancy rate.

In 2010, about 40% of Squirrel Hill's residents were Jewish.[6] According to a
2002 study by the United Jewish Federation, 33% of the Jewish population of
Greater Pittsburgh lives in Squirrel Hill, and another 14% lives in the
surrounding neighborhoods.[7] The report states that "The stability of
Squirrel Hill, a geographic hub of the Jewish community located within the
city limits, is unique in North America."

## History[edit]

### Origins[edit]

The name "Squirrel Hill" may have been given to the area by the Native
Americans who lived in its vicinity.[8] The neighborhood most likely was named
for the abundance of gray squirrels.[9]

The growth and development of Squirrel Hill was initially focused on the
riverfront along the Monongahela River. The first recorded house was built in
1760 by a soldier at nearby Fort Pitt, Colonel James Burd, at a place called
Summerset on the Monongahela River. Squirrel Hill's next house was built by
Ambrose Newton some time in the 1760s. This house is still standing and is
located in what is now Schenley Park along Overlook Drive (near the ice
skating rink). Its first "business district" was the intersection of Brown's
Hill Road and Beechwood Boulevard.

In 1778, John Turner built his estate of Federal Hill nearby (along what is
now Beechwood Boulevard). He later established the Turner cemetery in 1838
inside his estate, which he donated to the local community when he died in
1840.[8] This cemetery holds the remains of many of the original settlers of
Squirrel Hill. The Mary S. Brown Memorial Methodist church was also built on
adjoining lands donated by Turner. This church was rebuilt several times, but
the current building, which dates from 1908, is the oldest standing church in
Squirrel Hill[10]

The third house in Squirrel Hill, Neill Log House, was built by Robert Neill
around 1787, also in what is now Schenley Park. This house still exists and is
occasionally open to the public. The Neills owned 262 acres (1.06 km2) of land
in the northern section of Schenley Park. In 1795, the Neills moved from this
house to a location in what is now Market Square in downtown Pittsburgh. After
they died, the house was handed down to two different people before it was
sold to General James O'Hara. O'Hara's granddaughter, Mary Schenley, gave the
property to the city of Pittsburgh in 1889. For a time, the house was rented
out by the city to vacationers, but by 1969, the house was in such poor
condition that it was dismantled and rebuilt by the Pittsburgh History and
Landmarks Foundation. It still exists and is open for tours during the Vintage
Grand Prix in July.

Around 1820, William "Killymoon" Steward built one of the first tavern/inns in
the area. His tavern, located near the intersection of Beechwood and Brown's
Hill Road, survived for over 100 years. Slowly, Squirrel Hill became a
prosperous and affluent suburb.

Around 1840,[11] the Murdoch family started[12][13] a farm and nursery
business in the part of Squirrel Hill North which is known today as _Murdoch
Farms_.[14][15][16] Today, this quiet area contains many upscale homes.

By the 1860s, the area along Fifth Avenue near Woodland Road had several
mansions, including Willow Cottage. The cottage was built by the industrialist
and civic leader Thomas M. Howe, a bank president and member of the U.S. House
of Representatives from 1851 to 1855. Though neglected for many years and
almost torn down, Willow Cottage has recently undergone a $2.2 million
restoration and renovation into a Chatham University gatehouse and guesthouse.

#### Civil War[edit]

On December 24, 1860, protests broke out in the streets of Squirrel Hill after
news arrived that the U.S. Secretary of War, John B. Floyd had ordered 124
cannons to be shipped from Allegheny Arsenal to two forts under construction
in Louisiana and Texas.[17] The inhabitants of Pittsburgh predicted that these
weapons would be used against them if the South seceded, and this did indeed
happen at Fort Sumter.[18]

#### Incorporation into Pittsburgh[edit]

Murray Avenue in Squirrel Hill, looking north near Darlington Road, circa
1937. The electric trolley lines are clearly visible running down the center
of the street.

Prior to 1868, the Squirrel Hill area was part of Peebles Township. This
changed in 1868, when the area was annexed to the city of Pittsburgh.

Following the Civil War, several of Pittsburgh's richest families built
multiple houses in the Woodland Road area between Fifth and Wilkins Avenues.
In 1869, a women's college, the predecessor to Chatham University, was
established nearby. Today, Chatham University owns several of these large
houses.

In 1869, the clubhouse of the Pittsburgh Golf Club was built at the new
Schenley Park Golf Course (The present building by Alden and Harlow was
constructed in 1900). In 1876, the Homewood Cemetery was established on 176
acres (0.71 km2) of land in Squirrel Hill.[8]

Over the course of the 19th century, the focus of Squirrel Hill shifted from
its riverfront at the Monongahela River to the area closest to Oakland and
Shadyside. Ebdy's orchard was located near Shady Avenue and Murdoch's farm,
known for its flowers, fruit trees, and vegetable trees was located on the
hill above Oakland. By the late 1800s, the building of trolley lines caused a
migration of wealthy executives outwards toward country estates and workers
inward toward trolley lines. Farms were sold, and divided for new housing
developments.[19]

Inside the Squirrel Hill Tunnel, which runs underneath the southern half of
Squirrel Hill

The growth of Squirrel Hill accelerated when an electric trolley was installed
in 1893.[8] The trolley line ran via Forbes Avenue and Murray Avenue,
terminating in Homestead. The trolley line facilitated the building of
hundreds of houses for the middle management of local factories, especially on
Shady and Denniston Avenues near Aylesboro. Despite its trolley line, Murray
Avenue remained a dirt road until 1920. Murray Avenue carried three Pittsburgh
Railways trolley lines (#69 Squirrel Hill, #60 East Liberty-Homestead and #68
Homestead-Duquesne-Kennywood-McKeesport) until 1958 when the trolleys were
replaced by buses. Bus routes 61A, 61B, 61C, 61D, 64, 67, and 69 pass through
the area today.

Squirrel Hill grew even more with the opening of the Boulevard of the Allies
in 1927, providing a direct link to downtown Pittsburgh. By the 1930s, most of
the available land in Squirrel Hill had been filled.

In 1953, the Parkway and Squirrel Hill Tunnel were opened. They gave the area
easier and quicker access from surrounding neighborhoods.[8]

## Cultural life[edit]

Squirrel Hill's business area along Forbes and Murray Avenues is referred to
as "upstreet" (a contraction of "up the street") by locals. In addition to the
many retail businesses in the neighborhood, there are a number of longtime,
non-profit organizations, including a branch of the Carnegie Library of
Pittsburgh; the Jewish Community Center of Greater Pittsburgh[20] the Jewish
Family & Children's Service of Pittsburgh;[20][21] the Children's Institute of
Pittsburgh;[20] and the Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition.[22] The Tango Café was
a center of a range of cultural activities through the 2000s. Many annual
events are hosted in Squirrel Hill by various community organizations.

## Parks[edit]

Chatham University Arboretum, located in the north of Squirrel Hill

Squirrel Hill contains several nature-related points of interest. They include
the Chatham University Arboretum, originally belonging to Andrew Mellon;
Schenley Park and Frick Park.

In 1889, Schenley Park was established on land donated from Mary Schenley,
whose grandfather had been the owner of considerable amounts of land in the
area. The original size of the park was 120 acres (0.49 km2), though it
eventually expanded to 456 acres (1.85 km2) over the years.[8]

When Henry Clay Frick died in 1919, he bequeathed 150 acres (0.61 km2) of
undeveloped land to the City of Pittsburgh for use as a public park. He
provided a $2 million trust fund to assist with the maintenance of the park.
Frick Park on the eastern border of the Squirrel Hill neighborhood opened in
1927. Between 1919 and 1942, money from the trust fund was used to enlarge the
park, increasing its size to almost 600 acres (2.4 km2). In February 2004,
Frick Park grew with the addition of the Nine Mile Run stream restoration area
which flows to the Monongahela River. The United States Army Corps of
Engineers managed the restoration funded with $5 million in federal money and
$2.7 million raised by the city.[23] The restoration was completed in 2006.

## Jewish community[edit]

Squirrel Hill has had a large Jewish population since the 1920s, when Eastern
European Jews began to move to the neighborhood in large numbers from Oakland
and the Hill District. Many of them took up residence in rows of brick houses
on the cross streets of Murray Avenue south of Forbes, such as Darlington
Road, Bartlett Street, and Beacon Street. The neighborhood became the center
of Jewish culture in the city, with kosher butcher shops, delicatessens,
Jewish restaurants, bookstores, and designer boutiques. Several hundred
Russian Jewish immigrants moved to the neighborhood in the 1990s.[6] In more
recent years, the community has begun to shift toward a more Orthodox bent,
with many Conservative and Reform congregations shrinking as a result of
emigration to Israel, secularization, population movement, and deaths.

Most of Squirrel Hill is surrounded by a consecrated wall (an "eruv" using
telephone poles and wires as the "wall") which permits orthodox Jews to carry
things like books and push strollers on the Sabbath.[ _citation needed_ ] The
_eruv_ 's boundaries are quite irregular and contain portions of other
neighborhoods as well, with one writer noting that "an Orthodox Jew could
carry something within the _eruv_ 's boundaries all the way from the north end
of the Hot Metal Bridge to the intersection of Wilkins and South Dallas in
Point Breeze."[24] Squirrel Hill contains three Jewish day schools: two are
affiliated with the Chabad and Modern Orthodox movements,
respectively,[25][26] while Community Day School is a co-ed, independent
Jewish day school in the neighborhood that attracts families across the wide
spectrum of Jewish belief and practice.[27] There are more than 3 synagogues.
The Jewish Community Center (JCC) in Squirrel Hill is much like the YMCA in
many other neighborhoods, providing services to all residents of Squirrel Hill
while respecting the needs of the neighborhoods Orthodox members. The JCC has
the only gym with an indoor pool in the neighborhood.

## Education[edit]

Carnegie Mellon University

### Public schools[edit]

The Free Public School Act of 1834 ordered school districts not only to
establish free schools but also to establish them in townships outside city
limits.[28] This affected Squirrel Hill, since it was part of Peebles Township
at the time.

John Turner, who never learned to read or write but became a wealthy
landowner, left land and money to the community to build a school when he died
in 1844 at the age of 83. It was called Squirrel Hill School and was located
on Bigelow Street at Hazelwood Avenue in the Greenfield neighborhood. Its
successor closed in 1915 and was replaced by Roosevelt School, named for then-
president Theodore Roosevelt. It closed in 1957. It was replaced by John
Minadeo Elementary School, named for a ninth-grade school crossing guard who
gave his life to save a group of young students in the path of a runaway car
near Gladstone School.[29][30]

The Wightman School closed in 1980, and the building is now used as a
community center

After Peebles Township was annexed by Pittsburgh in 1868, Squirrel Hill became
the Colfax School District, named for Schuyler Colfax, who was Vice President
of the United States under President Ulysses S. Grant. The district had five
numbered schools. Colfax No. 1 was located at Phillips Avenue and Beechwood
Boulevard. Today, it is Pittsburgh Colfax K-8. Colfax No. 2 was on Beechwood
Boulevard near the intersection of Saline Street and Hazelwood Avenue near
Browns Hill Road. It closed in 1907 but was reopened in 1916 as the Roosevelt
School Annex when Roosevelt became overcrowded. The annex closed in 1939.
Colfax No. 3, on Forward Avenue, became Forward Avenue School and was named
after Walter Forward, who was appointed U.S. Secretary of the Treasury by
President John Tyler. The school was torn down in 1923, but its retaining wall
still exists under the Parkway East bridge over Saline Street. Colfax No. 4,
at Whipple and Commercial streets, became Swisshelm School and was named for
Jane Swisshelm, a writer and abolitionist. Colfax No. 5, at Solway and
Wightman streets, became Wightman School and was named for Thomas Wightman,
owner of the Thomas Wightman Glass Company. Wightman operated as a school from
1897 to 1980 and since then has been used as a community center building and
the home of [Carriage House Children's Center]. The building underwent
extensive restoration and remodeling to make it one of only two older
buildings in Western Pennsylvania to have LEED Gold certification.[30]

Taylor Allderdice High School

Two other public elementary schools existed in Squirrel Hill. Brown School was
built near the Monongahela River in 1888 on land donated by the Brown family.
It closed in 1932. H.B. Davis School, named for a principal of the Frick
Training School for Teachers, was located on Phillips Avenue. It opened in
1931 and closed in 1980.[31]

Squirrel Hill’s Taylor Allderdice High School opened in 1927.[32] It was named
for the president of the National Tube Company, who was also a member of the
Pittsburgh Public Schools Board of Education, which was created in 1911 and
given jurisdiction over all the public schools in the city, including those in
Squirrel Hill.[30]

### Private schools[edit]

Some private schools located in Squirrel Hill are St. Edmund's Academy, a
private nonsectarian (formerly Episcopalian) elementary school; Community Day
School, a co-ed, independent Jewish day school for students ages 3 to Grade 8;
Hillel Academy of Pittsburgh; and Yeshiva Schools of Pittsburgh. The Day
School at the Children's Institute of Pittsburgh serves children with a wide
range of special needs.

### Higher education[edit]

Carnegie Mellon University (CMU) and Chatham University are located in
Squirrel Hill (actually, many of CMU's buildings are in Oakland). However, CMU
also borders Pittsburgh's Oakland neighborhood, while Chatham borders
Shadyside.

## Local government[edit]

The neighborhood is represented on Pittsburgh City Council by Corey O'Connor
(District 5, Squirrel Hill South) and Dan Gillman (District 8, Squirrel Hill
North).

## Notable people[edit]

  * Marty Allen – stand-up comedian and actor[33]
  * Mel Bochner – artist[34]
  * Richard Caliguiri – former Mayor of Pittsburgh[35]
  * Willa Cather – author[36]
  * Myron Cope – sports journalist, radio personality, and sportscaster[37]
  * Jerry Fielding – composer[38]
  * Bob Filner \- Politician, congressman and San Diego mayor,
  * Howard Fineman – journalist[39]
  * Bernard Fisher – physician, scientist, and a pioneer in the biology and treatment of breast cancer[40]
  * Gary Graff – music journalist and author[41]
  * Evelyn Kozak – world's oldest living Jewish person[42] until her death in 2013
  * Maxine Lapiduss – television producer, television writer, and comedian[43]
  * Sally Lapiduss – television producer and writer[44]
  * Steve Lieber – comic book illustrator[45]
  * Larry Lucchino – President and CEO, Boston Red Sox[46]
  * Kathleen Marshall – choreographer, director, and creative consultant[47]
  * Rob Marshall – theater director, film director, and choreographer[47]
  * Sophie Masloff – former Mayor of Pittsburgh[48]
  * David Scott Milton \- author, playwright, screenwriter and actor.
  * Bob O'Connor – former Mayor of Pittsburgh
  * Iris Rainer Dart – author and playwright[49]
  * Fred Rogers – host, _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_[50]
  * Robert Schmertz – artist
  * Herbert A. Simon – political scientist, economist, sociologist, psychologist, and professor[51]
  * Evan Wolfson – attorney and gay rights advocate[52]

##  See also[edit]

  * Pittsburgh portal

  * List of Pittsburgh neighborhoods
  * History of Pittsburgh
  * Jewish history in Pittsburgh
  * Squirrel Hill, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania – A smaller neighborhood with the same name in Philadelphia.
  * Squirrel Hill Tunnel, carries Interstate 376 under the neighborhood
  * Summerset at Frick Park

## Notes and references[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Census: Pittsburgh" (PDF). Pittsburgh Department of City Planning. January 2006. Retrieved July 19, 2007. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Census: Pittsburgh". Pittsburgh Department of City Planning. Retrieved  October 28, 2012. 
  3. **^** "Murray Hill Avenue Designated Historic District" (PDF). City of Pittsburgh Historic Review Commission. Archived from the original (PDF) on January 8, 2010. Retrieved January 6, 2010. 
  4. **^** _Historic Landmark Plaques 1968–2009_ (PDF). Pittsburgh, PA: Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation. 2010. Retrieved August 5, 2011. 
  5. **^** Pghsnap
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ansberry, Clare (July 2, 2010). "Diverse Views on Israel Emerge in Jewish Enclave". _Wall Street Journal_.  
  7. **^** The 2002 Pittsburgh Jewish Community Study Archived July 17, 2012, at the Wayback Machine.
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ Ehrmann, Michael (Winter 2009). "The Development of Squirrel Hill" (PDF). _Squirrel Hill Magazine_. Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition. Archived from the original (PDF) on December 25, 2011. 
  9. **^** Bloom, Albert W. (Jan 14, 1953). "Pittsburgh today made up of many villages". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. p.  23. Retrieved 2 December 2015. 
  10. **^** Brief History of the Turner Cemetery, Retrieved October 29, 2012.
  11. **^** http://www.onlinebiographies.info/pa/wash/murdoch-wb.htm
  12. **^** "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on September 15, 2014. Retrieved September 15, 2014. 
  13. **^** http://www.murdochgardens.com/company-history/
  14. **^** http://squirrelhillhistory.org/index.php?sqh_history
  15. **^** http://www.city-data.com/forum/pittsburgh/113015-relocating-pittsburgh-san-francisco-advice-needed-5.html
  16. **^** http://old.post-gazette.com/regionstate/20010326streetnamesreg6.asp
  17. **^** _Guns for the Union_, by Jim Wudarczyk. Lawrenceville Historical Society website, retrieved November 8, 2012.
  18. **^** Wilson, Helen (Winter 2011). "Squirrel Hillʼs Part in the Civil War" (PDF). _Squirrel Hill Magazine_. Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 24, 2012. 
  19. **^** Wilson, Helen (Fall 2011). "Connections to the Past: Farming—Right Here in Squirrel Hill" (PDF). _Squirrel Hill Magazine_. Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 18, 2014. 
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Serving One and All: A History of Social Services in Squirrel Hill Archived March 24, 2012, at the Wayback Machine. By Emily Leon, Winter 2011
  21. **^** Vancheri, Barbara (May 12, 1988). "Low-profile Jewish agency marks 50 years of family service". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  22. **^** Luce Angell, Kate (August 7, 2008). "Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition to spread word about efforts through magazine". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  23. **^** Project to enliven Nine Mile Run, add 550 acres (2.2 km 2) to Frick Park By Joe Smydo, Pittsburgh Post-Gazette February 29, 2004
  24. **^** Potter, Chris (September 14, 2006). "Is there a wall around Squirrel Hill?". Pittsburgh City Paper. Retrieved July 5, 2011. 
  25. **^** "Yeshiva Schools and Lubavitch Center of Pittsburgh". _www.yeshivaschool.com_. Retrieved  2015-11-18. 
  26. **^** "Hillel Academy of Pittsburgh". _Hillel Academy of Pittsburgh_. Retrieved  2015-11-18. 
  27. **^** "Home Page - Community Day School". _comday.org_. Retrieved  2015-11-18. 
  28. **^** "The Fight For Free Schools In Pennsylvania". Pennsylvania Historical & Museum Commission. Retrieved  January 14, 2013. 
  29. **^** Bukk, Bob (March 30, 2012). "The Next Page / A Pittsburgh hero: John Minadeo". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Wilson, Helen (Spring 2011). "The Education of Squirrel Hill" (PDF). _Squirrel Hill Magazine_. Squirrel Hill Urban Coalition.  [ _dead link_ ]
  31. **^** "City schools cut 51 jobs from payroll". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. May 28, 1981.  
  32. **^** "School Information". _Quick Facts_. Pittsburgh Public Schools. Archived from the original on September 10, 2012. Retrieved  January 14, 2013. 
  33. **^** Hecht, Steve (August 27, 2009). "Comedian Marty Allen part of Allderdice's first hall class". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  34. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on February 2, 2014. Retrieved  January 28, 2014. 
  35. **^** Uhl, Sherley (November 5, 1985). "Voter turnout light in quiet election". _The Pittsburgh Press_.  
  36. **^** Iskovitz, Mark. "Squirrel Hill History". _A Pittsburgh Neighborhood_. Squirrel Hill Historical Society. Retrieved  January 13, 2013. 
  37. **^** Dubner, Stephen J. (2009). _Confessions of a Hero-Worshiper_. HarperCollins. p. 140\. ISBN 0061132985.  
  38. **^** Cohen, Harold V. (April 1, 1963). "At Random: Way Down East". _The Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved October 24, 2017.
  39. **^** Fineman, Howard (January 27, 2005). "Lessons in unity from Pittsburgh". _MSNBC_.  
  40. **^** Vondas, Jerry (March 15, 2008). "Dedicated pathologist made mark in his field". _Pittsburgh Tribune-Review_.  
  41. **^** Mervis, Scott (October 11, 2012). "Gary Graff: Rock 'n' roll observer". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  42. **^** Kirkland, Kevin (August 11, 2009). "Oldest Pittsburgher has her day and then some". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  April 15, 2013. 
  43. **^** Owen, Rob (July 20, 2005). "Funny business". _The Toledo Blade_.  
  44. **^** Owen, Rob (March 19, 2000). "Lapiduss sisters move on to new sitcom, Web venture". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  45. **^** Hayes, John (April 27, 2001). "Squirrel Hill native works the mainstream and the underground". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  46. **^** Perrotto, John (August 4, 1994). "Lucchino could be answer to Pirates' woes". _Beaver County Times_.  
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rawson, Christopher (August 22, 2007). "Two Marshalls win Governor's Awards for the Arts". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  48. **^** Langley, Karen (October 3, 2012). "Pa. voters won't need to show photo ID". _The Toledo Blade_.  
  49. **^** Hoover, Bob (May 20, 1999). "Author's spin tales of life's lessons". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  50. **^** Owen, Rob (February 28, 2003). "Fred Rogers dies at 74". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  
  51. **^** Crowther-Heyck, Hunter (2005). _Herbert A. Simon: The Bounds of Reason in Modern America_. The Johns Hopkins University Press. pp.  141–42. ISBN 0801880254. 
  52. **^** Feldman, Jacqueline (March 30, 2012). "Gay marriage advocate sees Pa. lagging behind". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_.  

### Further reading[edit]

  * Toker, Franklin (1994) [1986]. _Pittsburgh: An Urban Portrait_. Pittsburgh: University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN 0-8229-5434-6.  
  * Squirrel Hill Historical Society (2005). _Images of America – Squirrel Hill_. Arcadia Publishing. ISBN 0-7385-3717-9.  
  * History of the JCC Pittsburgh
  * The Corner Where You Are: A Sesquicentennial History of Sixth Presbyterian Church of Pittsburgh by David W. Miller

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Squirrel Hill (Pittsburgh)**_.  
---|---  
|  Wikivoyage has a travel guide for _**Squirrel Hill, Pittsburgh**_.  
---|---  
  
  * City of Pittsburgh's Squirrel Hill page
  * Interactive Pittsburgh Neighborhoods Map
  * Visitor's Guide to Squirrel Hill
  * **Historic Pittsburgh Map Collections**
    * 1872 – Atlas of the Cities of Pittsburgh, Allegheny and Adjoining Boroughs: Plate 12
    * 1872 – Atlas of the Cities of Pittsburgh, Allegheny, and the Adjoining Boroughs: Plate 10 [ _dead link_ ]
    * 1876 – Atlas of the Cities of Pittsburgh, Allegheny, and the Adjoining Boroughs: Plate 76[ _dead link_ ]
    * 1904 – Volume 1 – East End of Pittsburgh (South): Wards 13, 14, 22, and 23
    * 1923 – Volume 2 – East End (South): Wards 7 and 14–15
    * 1939 – Volume 2 – East End (South): Wards 7, 14 and 15

Places adjacent to Squirrel Hill (Pittsburgh)  
  
---  
  
| Oakland | Shadyside | Point Breeze  
---|---|---  
_Schenley Park_  
South Oakland |

**Squirrel Hill**

| _Frick Park_  
Regent Square  
Hazelwood | Greenfield  
Glen Hazel  
Homestead | Swisshelm Park  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Municipalities and communities of Pittsburgh in Allegheny County,
Pennsylvania, United States  
  
---  
Sections and  
Neighborhoods |

| Downtown |

  * Central Business District
    * Chinatown (historic)
    * Cultural District
  * Strip District
  * Uptown

  
  
---|---  
North Side / North Hills |

  * Allegheny Center
  * Allegheny West
  * Brighton Heights
  * California-Kirkbride
  * Central Northside
    * Mexican War Streets
  * Chateau
  * East Allegheny
  * Fineview
  * Manchester
  * Marshall-Shadeland
  * North Shore
  * Northview Heights
  * Perry North
  * Perry South
  * Spring Garden
  * Spring Hill–City View
  * Summer Hill
  * Troy Hill
    * Washington's Landing

  
  
South Side / South Hills |

  * Allentown
  * Arlington
  * Arlington Heights
  * Beechview
  * Beltzhoover
  * Bon Air
  * Brookline
  * Carrick
  * Hays
  * Knoxville
  * Lincoln Place
  * Mount Oliver
  * Mount Washington
    * Chatham Village
  * New Homestead
  * Overbrook
  * St. Clair
  * Southshore
  * South Side Flats
  * South Side Slopes

  
  
West End |

  * Banksville
  * Chartiers
  * Crafton Heights
  * Duquesne Heights
  * East Carnegie
  * Elliott
  * Esplen
  * Fairywood
  * Oakwood
  * Ridgemont
  * Sheraden
  * Westwood
  * Windgap

  
  
East End |

  * Bloomfield
  * Central Lawrenceville
  * Central Oakland
  * Crawford-Roberts
  * East Hills
  * East Liberty
  * Friendship
  * Garfield
  * Glen Hazel
  * Greenfield
    * Four Mile Run
  * Hazelwood
  * Highland Park
  * Homewood North
  * Homewood South
  * Homewood West
  * Larimer
  * Lincoln–Lemington–Belmar
  * Lower Lawrenceville
  * Middle Hill
  * Bedford Dwellings
  * Morningside
  * North Oakland
  * North Point Breeze
  * Point Breeze
  * Polish Hill
  * Regent Square
  * Shadyside
  * South Oakland
    * Panther Hollow
  * Squirrel Hill North
  * Squirrel Hill South
    * Summerset at Frick Park
  * Stanton Heights
  * Swisshelm Park
  * Terrace Village
  * Upper Hill
  * Upper Lawrenceville
  * West Oakland

  
  
Former  
Municipalities |

| Cities |

  * Allegheny City

  
  
---|---  
Boroughs |

  * Allentown
  * Beechview
  * Beltzhoover
  * Birmingham
  * Brushton
  * Carrick
  * East Birmingham
  * Elliott
  * Esplen
  * Hays
  * Knoxville
  * Lawrenceville
  * Manchester
  * Monongahela
  * Montooth
  * Mount Washington
  * Northern Liberties
  * Ormsby
  * Overbrook
  * St. Clair (1870-1872)
  * St. Clair (1906-1923)
  * Sheraden
  * South Pittsburgh
  * Spring Garden
  * Temperanceville
  * Union Borough
  * West Liberty
  * West Pittsburgh
  * Westwood

  
  
Townships |

  * Chartiers
  * Collins
  * Liberty
  * Lower St. Clair
  * McClure
  * Oakland
  * Peebles
  * Pitt
  * St. Clair
  * Sterrett
  * Union Township

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Squirrel_Hill_(Pittsburgh)&oldid=815313593"

Categories:

  * City of Pittsburgh historic designations
  * Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation Historic Landmarks
  * Neighborhoods in Pittsburgh
  * Academic enclaves
  * Economy of Pittsburgh
  * Jewish communities in the United States
  * Jews and Judaism in Pittsburgh
  * Russian-Jewish culture in the United States

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from January 2017
  * Use mdy dates from May 2013
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from February 2016
  * Articles with dead external links from January 2013

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Cebuano
  * Svenska

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 14 December 2017, at 03:19.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

