

# Science, technology, engineering, and mathematics

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from STEM fields)

Jump to: navigation, search

"STEM" redirects here. For other uses, see stem (disambiguation).

**STEM** ( **science, technology, engineering and mathematics** , previously
**METS** ) is the academic disciplines of science, technology, engineering and
mathematics.[1] This term is typically used when addressing education policy
and curriculum choices in schools, to improve competitiveness in science and
technology development. It has implications for workforce development,
national security concerns and immigration policy.[1] Education systems and
schools play a central role in determining girls' and boys' interest in STEM
subjects and in providing equal opportunities to access and benefit from
quality STEM education.[2]

The acronym arose in common use shortly after an interagency meeting science
education held at the US National Science Foundation chaired by the then NSF
director Rita Colwell.[3] A director from the Office of Science division of
Workforce Development for Teachers and Scientists, Peter Faletra, suggested
the change from the older acronym METS to STEM. Colwell, expressing some
dislike for the older acronym, responded by suggesting NSF to institute the
change. One of the first NSF projects to use the acronym was STEMTEC, the
Science, Technology, Engineering and Math Teacher Education Collaborative at
the University of Massachusetts Amherst, which was funded in 1998.[4]

## Contents

  * 1 Other variations
  * 2 Geographic distribution
    * 2.1 United States
      * 2.1.1 National Science Foundation
      * 2.1.2 Immigration policy
      * 2.1.3 STEM-eligible degrees in US immigration
      * 2.1.4 Education
        * 2.1.4.1 Racial gap in STEM fields
      * 2.1.5 American Competitiveness Initiative
      * 2.1.6 STEM Education Coalition
      * 2.1.7 Scouting
      * 2.1.8 Department of Defense programs
      * 2.1.9 NASA
      * 2.1.10 Legislation
      * 2.1.11 Jobs
    * 2.2 Hong Kong
    * 2.3 Africa
    * 2.4 Australia
    * 2.5 Canada
      * 2.5.1 Scouts Canada
      * 2.5.2 Schulich Leader Scholarships
    * 2.6 Turkey
    * 2.7 Qatar
    * 2.8 Vietnam
  * 3 Women
  * 4 Girls and women education in STEM
  * 5 Criticism
  * 6 See also
  * 7 Sources
  * 8 References
  * 9 Further reading
  * 10 External links

## Other variations[edit]

  * STM (Scientific, Technical, and Mathematics;[5] or Science, Technology, and Medicine; or Scientific, Technical, and Medical)
  * eSTEM (environmental STEM) [6][7]
  * iSTEM (invigorating Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics); identifies new ways to teach STEM-related fields.
  * STEMLE (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, Law and Economics); identifies subjects focused on fields such as applied social sciences and anthropology, regulation, cybernetics, machine learning, social systems, computational economics and computational social sciences.
  * STEMS^2 (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, Social Sciences and Sense of Place); integrates STEM with social sciences and sense of place.
  * METALS (STEAM + Logic), introduced by Su Su at Teachers College, Columbia University.[ _citation needed_ ]
  * STREM (Science, Technology, Robotics, Engineering, and Mathematics); adds robotics as a field.
  * STREM (Science, Technology, Robotics, Engineering, and Multimedia); adds robotics as a field and replaces mathematics with media.
  * STREAM (Science, Technology, Robotics, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics); adds robotics and arts as fields.
  * STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Arts, and Mathematics)[8]
  * STEAM (Science, Technology, Engineering and Applied Mathematics); more focus on applied mathematics[9]
  * GEMS (Girls in Engineering, Math, and Science); used for programs to encourage women to enter these fields.[10][11]
  * STEMM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics, and Medicine)
  * AMSEE (Applied Math, Science, Engineering, and Entrepreneurship)
  * THAMES (Technology, Hands-On, Art, Mathematics, Engineering, Science)

## Geographic distribution[edit]

### United States[edit]

In the United States, the acronym began to be used in education and
immigration debates in initiatives to begin to address the perceived lack of
qualified candidates for high-tech jobs. It also addresses concern that the
subjects are often taught in isolation, instead of as an integrated
curriculum.[12] Maintaining a citizenry that is well versed in the STEM fields
is a key portion of the public education agenda of the United States.[13] The
acronym has been widely used in the immigration debate regarding access to
United States work visas for immigrants who are skilled in these fields. This
version of the term is accredited to Texas. It has also become commonplace in
education discussions as a reference to the shortage of skilled workers and
inadequate education in these areas.[14] The term tends not to refer to the
non-professional sectors of the fields that remain more invisible such as
electronics assembly line work, for example.

#### National Science Foundation[edit]

Many organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the National
Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field. The NSF uses a broader
definition of STEM subjects that includes subjects in the fields of chemistry,
computer and information technology science, engineering, geosciences, life
sciences, mathematical sciences, physics and astronomy, social sciences
(anthropology, economics, psychology and sociology), and STEM education and
learning research.[1][15] Eligibility for scholarship programs such as the CSM
STEM Scholars Program use the NSF definition.[16]

The NSF is the only American federal agency whose mission includes support for
all fields of fundamental science and engineering, except for medical
sciences.[17] Its disciplinary program areas include scholarships, grants,
fellowships in fields such as biological sciences, computer and information
science and engineering, education and human resources, engineering,
environmental research and education, geosciences, international science and
engineering, mathematical and physical sciences, social, behavioral and
economic sciences, cyberinfrastructure, and polar programs.[15]

#### Immigration policy[edit]

Although many organizations in the United States follow the guidelines of the
National Science Foundation on what constitutes a STEM field, the United
States Department of Homeland Security (DHS) has its own functional definition
used for immigration policy.[18] In 2012, DHS or ICE announced an expanded
list of STEM designated-degree programs that qualify eligible graduates on
student visas for an optional practical training (OPT) extension. Under the
OPT program, international students who graduate from colleges and
universities in the United States are able to remain in the country and
receive training through work experience for up to 12 months. Students who
graduate from a designated STEM degree program can remain for an additional 17
months on an OPT STEM extension.[19][20]

#### STEM-eligible degrees in US immigration[edit]

For more details on Temporary foreign workers, see Global labor arbitrage,
H-1B visa, and Optional Practical Training.

An exhaustive list of STEM disciplines does not exist because the definition
varies by organization. The U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement lists
disciplines including[21] physics, actuarial science, chemistry, biology,
mathematics, applied mathematics, statistics, computer science, computational
science, psychology, biochemistry, robotics, computer engineering, electrical
engineering, electronics, mechanical engineering, industrial engineering,
information science, information technology, civil engineering, aerospace
engineering, chemical engineering, astrophysics, astronomy, optics,
nanotechnology, nuclear physics, mathematical biology, operations research,
neurobiology, biomechanics, bioinformatics, acoustical engineering, geographic
information systems, atmospheric sciences, educational/instructional
technology, software engineering, and educational research.

#### Education[edit]

By cultivating an interest in the natural and social sciences in preschool or
immediately following school entry, the chances of STEM success in high school
can be greatly improved. School integration can help black, Hispanic and
aboriginal students catch up to Asian and white students.[22]

STEM supports broadening the study of engineering within each of the other
subjects, and beginning engineering at younger grades, even elementary school.
It also brings STEM education to all students rather than only the gifted
programs. In his 2012 budget, President Barack Obama renamed and broadened the
" _Mathematics and Science Partnership (MSP)_ " to award block grants to
states for improving teacher education in those subjects.[23]

STEM education often uses new technologies such as RepRap 3D printers to
encourage interest in STEM fields.[24]

In 2006 the United States National Academies expressed their concern about the
declining state of STEM education in the United States. Its Committee on
Science, Engineering, and Public Policy developed a list of 10 actions. Their
top three recommendations were to:

  * Increase America's talent pool by improving K–12 science and mathematics education
  * Strengthen the skills of teachers through additional training in science, mathematics and technology
  * Enlarge the pipeline of students prepared to enter college and graduate with STEM degrees[25]

The National Aeronautics and Space Administration also has implemented
programs and curricula to advance STEM education in order to replenish the
pool of scientists, engineers and mathematicians who will lead space
exploration in the 21st century.[25]

Individual states, like California, have run pilot after-school STEM programs,
for example, to learn what the most promising practices are and how to
implement them to increase the chance of student success.[26] Another state to
invest in STEM Education is Florida, where Florida Polytechnic University,
Florida’s first public university for engineering and technology dedicated to
science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM), was established.[27]

Continuing STEM education has expanded to the post-secondary level through
masters programs such as The University of Maryland's STEM Program[28] as well
as the University of Cincinnati.[29]

##### Racial gap in STEM fields[edit]

In the United States, the National Science Foundation found that the average
science score on the 2011 National Assessment of Educational Progress was
lower for black and Hispanic students than white, Asian, and Pacific
Islanders.[30] In 2011, eleven percent of the U.S. workforce was black, while
only six percent of STEM workers were black.[31] Though STEM in the U.S. has
typically been dominated by white males, there have been considerable efforts
to create initiatives to make STEM a more racially and gender diverse
field.[32]

#### American Competitiveness Initiative[edit]

In the State of the Union Address on January 31, 2006, President George W.
Bush announced the American Competitiveness Initiative. Bush proposed the
initiative to address shortfalls in federal government support of educational
development and progress at all academic levels in the STEM fields. In detail,
the initiative called for significant increases in federal funding for
advanced R&D programs (including a doubling of federal funding support for
advanced research in the physical sciences through DOE) and an increase in
U.S. higher education graduates within STEM disciplines.

The _NASA Means Business_ competition, sponsored by the Texas Space Grant
Consortium, furthers that goal. College students compete to develop
promotional plans to encourage students in middle and high school to study
STEM subjects and to inspire professors in STEM fields to involve their
students in outreach activities that support STEM education.

The National Science Foundation has numerous programs in STEM education,
including some for K–12 students such as the ITEST Program that supports The
Global Challenge Award ITEST Program. STEM programs have been implemented in
some Arizona schools. They implement higher cognitive skills for students and
enable them to inquire and use techniques used by professionals in the STEM
fields.

The STEM Academy is a national nonprofit-status organization dedicated to
improving STEM literacy for all students. It represents a recognized national
next-generation high-impact academic model. The practices, strategies, and
programming are built upon a foundation of identified national best practices
which are designed to improve under-represented minority and low-income
student growth, close achievement gaps, decrease dropout rates, increase high
school graduation rates and improve teacher and principal effectiveness. The
STEM Academy represents a flexible use academic model that targets all schools
and is for all students.[33]

Project Lead The Way (PLTW) is a leading provider of STEM education curricular
programs to middle and high schools in the United States. The national
nonprofit organization has over 5,200 programs in over 4,700 schools in all 50
states. Programs include a high school engineering curriculum called _Pathway
To Engineering_ , a high school biomedical sciences program, and a middle
school engineering and technology program called _Gateway To Technology_. PLTW
provides the curriculum and the teacher professional development and ongoing
support to create transformational programs in schools, districts, and
communities. PLTW programs have been endorsed by President Barack Obama and
United States Secretary of Education Arne Duncan as well as various state,
national, and business leaders.

####  STEM Education Coalition[edit]

_The Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education
Coalition_[34] works to support STEM programs for teachers and students at the
U. S. Department of Education, the National Science Foundation, and other
agencies that offer STEM-related programs. Activity of the STEM Coalition
seems to have slowed since September 2009.

####  Scouting[edit]

The Boy Scouts of America announced the roll out of an awards program in the
spring of 2012 to promote more interest and involvement in the STEM
disciplines. The NOVA and SUPERNOVA awards are available to Boy Scouts, Cub
Scouts and Venturers as they complete specific requirements appropriate to
their program level in each of the four main STEM program areas: Science,
Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics.

Girl Scouts of the United States of America incorporated STEM into their
program with the goal that girls will see how they can change the world
through scientific discoveries as well as to teach important skills they can
use throughout there life.[35] One of the ways STEM was incorporated is
through leadership journeys where girls identify a problem, come up with a
solution, a plan how to carry it out, then carry out the solution and
afterwards communicate what she learned from it.[36] Another way is through
badges which are more specific to the girl’s personal interest in categories
such as naturalist, digital art, science and technology, innovation and
financial literacy. Special projects hosted by sponsors, innovations, partners
such as NASA, and other institutions who have partnered with Girl Scouts to
connect girls to professionals and possible career fields in the STEM field
they would not have been exposed to otherwise.[35]

#### Department of Defense programs[edit]

[37] The eCybermission is a free, web-based science, mathematics and
technology competition for students in grades six through nine sponsored by
the U.S. Army. Each webinar is focused on a different step of the scientific
method and is presented by an experienced eCybermission CyberGuide.
CyberGuides are military and civilian volunteers with a strong background in
STEM and STEM education, who are able to provide valuable insight into
science, technology, engineering, and mathematics to students and team
advisers.

STARBASE is a premier educational program, sponsored by the Office of the
Assistant Secretary of Defense for Reserve Affairs. Students interact with
military personnel to explore careers and make connections with the "real
world." The program provides students with 20–25 hours of stimulating
experiences at National Guard, Navy, Marines, Air Force Reserve and Air Force
bases across the nation.

SeaPerch is an innovative underwater robotics program that trains teachers to
teach their students how to build an underwater remotely operated vehicle
(ROV) in an in-school or out-of-school setting. Students build the ROV from a
kit composed of low-cost, easily accessible parts, following a curriculum that
teaches basic engineering and science concepts with a marine engineering
theme.

#### NASA[edit]

NASAStem is a program of the U.S. space agency NASA to increase diversity
within its ranks, including age, disability, and gender as well as
race/ethnicity.[38]

#### Legislation[edit]

The America COMPETES Act (P.L. 110-69) became law on August 9, 2007. It is
intended to increase the nation's investment in science and engineering
research and in STEM education from kindergarten to graduate school and
postdoctoral education. The act authorizes funding increases for the National
Science Foundation, National Institute of Standards and Technology
laboratories, and the Department of Energy (DOE) Office of Science over
FY2008–FY2010. Robert Gabrys, Director of Education at NASA's Goddard Space
Flight Center, articulated success as increased student achievement, early
expression of student interest in STEM subjects, and student preparedness to
enter the workforce.

#### Jobs[edit]

In November 2012 the White House announcement before congressional vote on the
STEM Jobs Act put President Obama in opposition to many of the Silicon Valley
firms and executives who bankrolled his re-election campaign.[39] The
Department of Labor identified 14 sectors that are "projected to add
substantial numbers of new jobs to the economy or affect the growth of other
industries or are being transformed by technology and innovation requiring new
sets of skills for workers."[40] The identified sectors were as follows:
advanced manufacturing, Automotive, construction, financial services,
geospatial technology, homeland security, information technology,
Transportation, Aerospace, Biotechnology, energy, healthcare, hospitality, and
retail.

The Department of Commerce notes STEM fields careers are some of the best-
paying and have the greatest potential for job growth in the early 21st
century. The report also notes that STEM workers play a key role in the
sustained growth and stability of the U.S. economy, and training in STEM
fields generally results in higher wages, whether or not they work in a STEM
field.[41]

### Hong Kong[edit]

STEM education has not been promoted among the local schools in Hong Kong
until recent years. In November 2015, the Education Bureau of Hong Kong
released a document entitled _Promotion of STEM Education_ ,[42] which
proposes the strategies and recommendations on promoting STEM education.

### Africa[edit]

Around the world, STEM education initiatives vary in scope, size, type, target
populations and funding sources. A list of organizations that are currently
engaged in STEM Education activities and outreach across Sub-Saharan Africa
has emerged. The organizations range in size, scope, funding mechanisms, and
mission statements. However, they are all focused on improving STEM Education
in the continent.

### Australia[edit]

There have been numerous programs and attempts to establish a national
approach to STEM education in Australia.

### Canada[edit]

Canada ranks 12th out of 16 peer countries in the percentage of its graduates
who studied in STEM programs, with 21.2%, a number higher than the United
States, but lower than countries such as France, Germany, and Austria. The
peer country with the greatest proportion of STEM graduates, Finland, has over
30% of their university graduates coming from science, mathematics, computer
science, and engineering programs.[43]

#### Scouts Canada[edit]

Scouts Canada has taken similar measures to their American counterpart to
promote STEM fields to youth. Their STEM program began in 2015.[44]

#### Schulich Leader Scholarships[edit]

In 2011 Canadian entrepreneur and philanthropist Seymour Schulich established
the Schulich Leader Scholarships, $100 million in $60,000 scholarships for
students beginning their university education in a STEM program at 20
institutions across Canada. Each year 40 Canadian students would be selected
to receive the award, two at each institution, with the goal of attracting
gifted youth into the STEM fields.[45] The program also supplies STEM
scholarships to five participating universities in Israel.[46]

### Turkey[edit]

Turkish STEM Education Task Force (or FeTeMM—Fen Bilimleri, Teknoloji,
Mühendislik ve Matematik) is a coalition of academicians and teachers who show
an effort to increase the quality of education in STEM fields rather than
focussing on increasing the number of STEM graduates.[47][48]

### Qatar[edit]

In Qatar, AL-Bairaq is an outreach program to high-school students with a
curriculum that focuses on STEM, run by the Center for Advanced Materials
(CAM) at Qatar University. Each year around 946 students, from about 40 high
schools, participate in AL-Bairaq competitions.[49] AL-Bairaq make use of
project-based learning, encourages students to solve authentic problems, and
inquires them to work with each other as a team to build real
solutions.[50][51] Research has so far shown positive results for the
program.[52]

### Vietnam[edit]

In Vietnam, beginning in 2012 many private education organizations has STEM
education initiatives.

In 2015, the Ministry of Science and Technology and Liên minh STEM organized
the first National STEM day, followed by many similar events across the
country.

in 2015, Ministry of Education and Training included STEM as an area needed to
be encouraged in national school year program.

In May 2017, Prime Minister signed a Directive no. 16 stating: "Dramatically
change the policies, contents, education and vocational training methods to
create a human resource capable of receiving new production technology trends,
with a focus on promoting training in science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (STEM), foreign languages, information technology in general
education; " and asking "Ministry of Education and Training (to): Promote the
deployment of science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)
education in general education program; Pilot organize in some high schools
from 2017 to 2018.

## Women[edit]

Main article: Women in STEM fields

Despite significant improvements in recent decades, education is not
universally available and gender inequalities persist. A major concern in many
countries is not only limited numbers of girls going to school, but also
limited educational pathways for those that step into the classroom. This
includes, more specifically, how to address the lower participation and
learning achievement of girls in science, technology, engineering and
mathematics (STEM) education.[2]

Current campaigns to increase the gender balance within STEM fields include
the UK's WISE[53] as well as mentoring programs, such as the Million Women
Mentors initiative connecting girls and young women with STEM mentors[54] and
Verizon's #InspireHerMind project.[55] The US Office of Science and Technology
Policy during the Obama administration collaborated with the White House
Council on Women and Girls to increase the participation of women and girls
within STEM fields[56] along with the "Educate to Innovate" campaign.[57]

Women in STEM fields are often underrepresented, holding less than 25% of the
jobs in the U.S.[58] and 13% in the UK (2014).[59] In the United States,
studies have been conducted to explain this pattern, such as mechanisms in
recruitment and hiring processes.[60] On average, women in STEM fields earn
33% more than those in non-STEM professions.[56] However, women can be found
as leaders in top professions around the country. These include the U.S.
Department of Defense, NASA, and the National Science Foundation
(NSF).[61][62]

Though women nearly comprise half of the US workforce, they've held less than
25% of STEM jobs consistently over the last decade.[54] While 12% of women in
bachelor programs will get a degree in STEM each year, only 3% continue to
work within the STEM field 10 years after graduation.[54] According to the
National Science Foundation, only 28% of U.S. scientists and engineers working
in science and engineering occupations are women, with 6.5% Asian women, 1.6%
black women, and 1.8% Hispanic women.[63] While nearly 60% of bachelor's
degrees are awarded to graduating women each year, less than 20% are in
computer science.[64]

A 2012 study[65] in the _Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences of
the United States_ showed that an implicit bias exists against hiring women
for even entry-level STEM positions. This study had faculty members in
university biology, chemistry, and physics departments judge applications for
a laboratory manager position. These applications only differed in name (i.e.,
John vs. Jennifer).

##  Girls and women education in STEM[edit]

Gender differences in STEM education participation at the expense of girls are
already visible in early childhood care and education (ECCE) and become more
visible at higher levels of education. Girls appear to lose interest in STEM
subjects with age, and lower levels of participation are already seen in
advanced studies at secondary level. By higher education, women represent only
35% of all students enrolled in STEM-related fields of study. Gender
differences also exist in STEM disciplines, with the lowest female enrolment
observed in information, communication and technology (ICT); engineering,
manufacturing and construction; and natural science, mathematics and
statistics. Women leave STEM disciplines in disproportionate numbers during
their higher education studies, in their transition to the world of work and
even during their career cycle.[2]

Cross-national studies of learning achievement (measuring knowledge
acquisition or knowledge application) from more than 120 countries and
dependent territories present a complex picture. In middle- to high-income
countries for which trend data are available, data gaps to girls’ disadvantage
are closing, particularly in science. In addition, in countries where girls do
better than boys on curriculum-based assessments, their score difference can
be up to three times higher than when boys do better. There are significant
regional differences, however. For example, girls outperform boys in many
countries in Asia while the score difference between boys and girls in science
achievement is particularly strong in the Arab States, with girls
significantly outperforming boys.[2]

More countries demonstrate gender differences to boys’ advantage in
mathematics achievement, with boys’ score differentials as compared to those
of girls often increasing between early and late primary education. Regional
differences exist also in mathematics; girls are particularly disadvantaged in
Latin America and sub-Saharan Africa. Differences also exist between
assessments that measure learning against the curriculum-based compared to
those that measure students’ ability to apply knowledge and skills to
different situations. Boys performed better in two-thirds of the 70 countries
measuring applied learning in math at age 15.[2]

Research on biological factors, including brain structure and development,
genetics, neuroscience and hormones, shows that the gender gap in STEM is not
the result of sex differences in these factors or in innate ability. Rather,
findings suggest that learning is underpinned by neuroplasticity, the capacity
of the brain to expand and form new connections, and that education
performance, including in STEM subjects, is influenced by experience and can
be improved through targeted interventions. Spatial and language skills,
especially written language, are positively correlated with performance in
mathematics and can be improved with practice, irrespective of sex, especially
during the earlier years of life.[2]

## Criticism[edit]

The focus on increasing participation in STEM fields has attracted criticism.
In the 2014 article "The Myth of the Science and Engineering Shortage" in _The
Atlantic_ , demographer Michael S. Teitelbaum criticized the efforts of the
U.S. government to increase the number of STEM graduates, saying that, among
studies on the subject, "No one has been able to find any evidence indicating
current widespread labor market shortages or hiring difficulties in science
and engineering occupations that require bachelor's degrees or higher", and
that "Most studies report that real wages in many—but not all—science and
engineering occupations have been flat or slow-growing, and unemployment as
high or higher than in many comparably-skilled occupations." Teitelbaum also
wrote that the then-current national fixation on increasing STEM participation
paralleled previous U.S. government efforts since World War II to increase the
number of scientists and engineers, all of which he stated ultimately ended up
in "mass layoffs, hiring freezes, and funding cuts"; including one driven by
the Space Race of the late 1950s and 1960s, which he wrote led to "a bust of
serious magnitude in the 1970s."[66]

_IEEE Spectrum_ contributing editor Robert N. Charette echoed these sentiments
in the 2013 article "The STEM Crisis Is a Myth", also noting that there was a
"mismatch between earning a STEM degree and having a STEM job" in the United
States, with only around ¼ of STEM graduates working in STEM fields, while
less than half of workers in STEM fields have a STEM degree.[67]

Economics writer Ben Casselman, in a 2014 study of post-graduation earnings
for _FiveThirtyEight_ , wrote that, based on the data, science should not be
grouped with the other three STEM categories, because, while the other three
generally result in high-paying jobs, "many sciences, particularly the life
sciences, pay below the overall median for recent college graduates."[68]

## See also[edit]

  * American Indian Science and Engineering Society (AISES)
  * Glossary of biology
  * Glossary of chemistry
  * Glossary of civil engineering
  * Glossary of ecology
  * Glossary of electrical and electronics engineering
  * Glossary of engineering
  * Glossary of mechanical engineering
  * Glossary of physics
  * Glossary of robotics
  * Glossary of structural engineering
  * Hard and soft science
  * List of African American women in STEM fields
  * Maker culture
  * National Society of Black Engineers (NSBE)
  * NASA RealWorld-InWorld Engineering Design Challenge
  * Society of Hispanic Professional Engineers (SHPE)
  * Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics Network
  * Pre-STEM
  * STEM pipeline
  * STEM Academy
  * STEAM fields
  * STEM.org

## Sources[edit]

This article incorporates text from a free content work. Licence statement:
_Cracking the code: girls' and women's education in science, technology,
engineering and mathematics (STEM)_, 11, UNESCO.

To learn how to add freely licensed text to Wikipedia articles, please see the
terms of use.

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Education: A Primer" (PDF). _Fas.org_. Retrieved  2017-08-21. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _Cracking the code: girls' and women's education in science, technology, engineering and mathematics (STEM)_. Paris: UNESCO. 2017. p.  11\. ISBN 9789231002335. 
  3. **^** "Guest commentary: A "STEM" in Collier County to reach their future". _Naplesnews.com_. Retrieved  2016-06-09. 
  4. **^** "STEMTEC". _Fivecolleges.edu_. Retrieved  2016-10-27. 
  5. **^** Ken Whistler, Asmus Freytag, AMS (STIX); "Encoding Additional Mathematical Symbols in Unicode (revised)"; 2000-04-09. Math Symbols 2000-04-19 - Unicode Consortium (accessed 2016-10-21
  6. **^** eSTEM Academy, retrieved 2013-07-02
  7. **^** _Arbor Height Elementary to implement "eSTEM" curriculum in coming years_ , West Seattle Herald, 4-30-2013, retrieved 2013-07-02
  8. **^** "STEAM Rising: Why we need to put the arts into STEM education". Slate. Retrieved  2016-11-10. 
  9. **^** "Virginia Tech and Virginia STEAM Academy form strategic partnership to meet critical education needs". _Virginia Tech News_. 31 July 2012.  
  10. **^** "Girls in Engineering, Math and Science (GEMS)". _GRASP lab_. 2015-04-06. Retrieved  2017-03-28. 
  11. **^** "Annual Report - Lee Richardson Zoo" (PDF). _Lee Richardson Zoo_.  
  12. **^** "STEM Education in Southwestern Pennsylvania" (PDF). The Intermediate Unit 1 Center for STEM Education. 2008. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  13. **^** Morella, Michael (July 26, 2012). "U.S. News Inducts Five to STEM Leadership Hall of Fame". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  14. **^** Kakutani, Michiko (November 7, 2011). "Bill Clinton Lays Out His Prescription for America's Future". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  2012-12-21. 
  15. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Graduate Research Fellowship Program". _nsf.gov_.  
  16. **^** "ISTEM – College of Southern Maryland". Archived from the original on 2013-04-03.  
  17. **^** "What We Do". The National Science Foundation. Retrieved  2012-12-21. 
  18. **^** "Immigration of Foreign Nationals with Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Degrees" (PDF). _Fas.org_. Retrieved  2017-08-21. 
  19. **^** Jennifer G. Roeper (May 19, 2012). "DHS Expands List of STEM designated-degree programs". Fowler White Boggs P.A. Retrieved 2012-10-01. 
  20. **^** "STEM-Designated Degree Program List : 2012 Revised List" (PDF). _Ice.gov_. Retrieved  2017-08-21. 
  21. **^** "STEM Designated Degree Programs". U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement. April 2008. Retrieved  2012-12-21. 
  22. **^** Morgan, Paul; Farkas, George; Hillemeier, Marianne; Maczuga, Steve (2016), "Science Achievement Gaps Begin Very Early, Persist, and Are Largely Explained by Modifiable Factors", _Educational Researcher_ , **45** (1): 18–35, doi:10.3102/0013189X16633182  
  23. **^** Jane J. Lee (14 February 2012). "Obama's Budget Shuffles STEM Education Deck". American Association for the Advancement of Science. Archived from the original on 29 August 2012. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  24. **^** J.L. Irwin, D.E. Oppliger, J.M. Pearce, G. Anzalone, Evaluation of RepRap 3D Printer Workshops in K-12 STEM. _122nd ASEE 122nd ASEE Conf. Proceedings_ , paper ID#12036, 2015. open access
  25. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "STEM Education". _Slsd.org_. Retrieved  2016-06-09. 
  26. **^** "Final Report : California Department of Education : CDE Agreement" (PDF). _Powerofdiscovery.org_. Retrieved  2017-08-21. 
  27. **^** "About Florida Polytechnic University". _Florida Polytechnic University_. Retrieved  2015-10-26. 
  28. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2014-09-10. Retrieved  2014-07-05. 
  29. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2014-09-10. Retrieved  2014-07-05. 
  30. **^** "Science and Engineering Indicators 2014." S&E Indicators 2014 - Figures - US National Science Foundation (NSF). N.p., n.d. Web.
  31. **^** Landivar, Liana C. Disparities in STEM Employment by Sex, Race, and Hispanic Origin . Rep. N.p.: n.p., 2013.
  32. **^** "FACT SHEET: President Obama Announces Over $240 Million in New STEM Commitments at the 2015 White House Science Fair." National Archives and Records Administration. National Archives and Records Administration, n.d. Web.
  33. **^** "stemacademy". _Stem101.org_.  
  34. **^** Bybee, R. W. (2010). "What is STEM Education?". _Science_. **329** (5995): 996–996. Bibcode:2010Sci...329..996B. doi:10.1126/science.1194998. PMID 20798284.  
  35. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "STEM - Girl Scouts". _Girl Scouts of the USA_. Retrieved  2017-09-27. 
  36. **^** "Journeys - Girl Scouts". _Girl Scouts of the USA_. Retrieved  2017-09-27. 
  37. **^** "Research & Engineering Enterprise: STEM". _Osd.mil_. Retrieved  2017-08-21. 
  38. **^** "NASA Office of Diversity and Equal Opportunity (ODEO)". _missionstem.nasa.gov_. Retrieved  20 August 2017. 
  39. **^** Declan McCullagh (November 28, 2012). "Obama opposes Silicon Valley firms on immigration reform". CNET. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  40. **^** "The STEM Workforce Challenge: the Role of the Public Workforce System in a National Solution for a Competitive Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) Workforce" (PDF). U.S. Department of Labor. April 2007. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  41. **^** "STEM: Good Jobs Now and For the Future". _doc.gov_.  
  42. **^** "Promotion of STEM Education" (PDF). _Edb.gov.hk_. Retrieved  2017-08-21. 
  43. **^** "Graduates in science, math, computer science, and engineering". _Conferenceboard.ca_. Retrieved  20 August 2017. 
  44. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 2014-08-11. Retrieved  2014-06-30. 
  45. **^** "Toronto philanthropist Schulich unveils $100-million scholarship". _Theglobeandmail.com_. Retrieved  30 June 2014. 
  46. **^** "Philanthropist Makes $100 Million Investment In Nation's Future". _Shalomlife.com_. Retrieved  30 June 2014. 
  47. **^** "FeTeMM Çalışma Grubu". Retrieved  3 September 2014. 
  48. **^** "STEM Education Task Force". _Tstem.com_. Retrieved  3 September 2014. 
  49. **^** "AlBairaq World - Welcome to Al-Bairaq World". _Web.archive.org_. 19 April 2014. Archived from the original on 19 April 2014. Retrieved  20 August 2017. CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link)
  50. **^** "Supreme Education Council". _Sec.gov.qa_. Archived from the original on 2017-06-30. Retrieved  2017-08-20. 
  51. **^** "The Peninsula Qatar - Al Bairaq holds workshop for high school students". _Thepeninsulaqatar.com_. Retrieved  2017-08-20. 
  52. **^** "Al-Ghanim, K.A; Al-Maadeed, M.A and Al-Thani, N.J (Sept. 2014) : IMPACT OF INNOVATIVE LEARNING ENVIRONMENT BASED ON RESEARCH ACTIVITIES ON SECONDARY SCHOOL STUDENTS' ATTITUDE TOWARDS RESEARCH AND THEIR SELF-EFFICACY, EJES, 1(3), 39-57" (PDF). _Ejes.eu_. Retrieved  2017-08-20. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  53. **^** WISE. "About us". _Wisecampaign.org.uk_. Retrieved  20 August 2017. 
  54. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Million Women Mentors". _Millionwomenmentors.org_. Retrieved  31 August 2017. 
  55. **^** "Verizon Innovative Learning". _Verizon.com_. Retrieved  20 August 2017. 
  56. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Women in STEM". Archived from the original on 14 May 2016. Retrieved  14 May 2016. 
  57. **^** "Women and Girls in Science, Technology, Engineering, and Math (STEM)" (PDF). Executive Office of the President - White House. Retrieved 2 March 2015. 
  58. **^** "Women in STEM: A Gender Gap to Innovation". _doc.gov_.  
  59. **^** "Science careers face diversity challenge". _westminster.ac.uk_. Archived from the original on 2014-10-18.  
  60. **^** Glass, C.; Minnotte, K. L. (2010). "Recruiting and hiring women in STEM fields". _Journal of Diversity in Higher Education_. **3** (4): 218–229. doi:10.1037/a0020581.  
  61. **^** "100 Women Leaders in STEM". _stemconnector.org_.  
  62. **^** TechWomen. "Promoting the World's Future Women Leaders in STEM". _TechWomen_.  
  63. **^** National Center for Science and Engineering Statistics Directorate for Social, Behavioral and Economic Sciences. "Women, Minorities, and Persons with Disabilities in Science and Engineering: 2015". _NSF_. National Science Foundation. Retrieved  20 May 2017. 
  64. **^** Wohlsen, Marcus. "Women Engineers Trace Tech Gender Gap To Childhood". _Huffington Post_. Retrieved  2 March 2015. 
  65. **^** Moss-Racusin, Corinne A.; Dovidio, John F.; Brescoll, Victoria L.; Graham, Mark J.; Handelsman, Jo (2012-10-09). "Science faculty's subtle gender biases favor male students". _Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences_. **109** (41): 16474–16479. doi:10.1073/pnas.1211286109. ISSN 0027-8424. PMC 3478626 . PMID 22988126.  
  66. **^** Teitelbaum, Michael S. "The Myth of the Science and Engineering Shortage". _The Atlantic_.  
  67. **^** Charette, Robert N. (August 30, 2013). "The STEM Crisis Is a Myth". IEEE Spectrum. 
  68. **^** Casselman, Ben (September 12, 2014). "The Economic Guide To Picking A College Major". FiveThirtyEight. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * David Beede; et al. (September 2011). "Education Supports Racial and Ethnic Equality in STEM" (PDF). U.S. Department of Commerce. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  * David Beede; et al. (August 2011). "Women in STEM: An Opportunity and An Imperative" (PDF). U.S. Department of Commerce. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  * David Langdon; et al. (July 2011). "STEM: Good Jobs Now and For the Future" (PDF). U.S. Department of Commerce. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  * Arden Bement (May 24, 2005). "Statement To House & Senate Appriopriators In Support Of STEM Education And NSF Education" (PDF). STEM Coalition. Archived from the original (PDF) on November 20, 2012. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  * Audrey T. Leath (August 29, 2005). "House Higher Education Bill Would Promote STEM Careers". American Institute of Physics. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  * Evelyn Lamb (July 30, 2012). "Abandoning Algebra Is Not the Answer". Scientific American. Retrieved 2012-12-21. 
  * Mary Kirk (2009). _Gender and Information Technology: Moving Beyond Access to Co-Create Global Partnership_. IGI Global Snippet. ISBN 978-1-59904-786-7.  
  * Shirley M. Malcom; Daryl E. Chubin; Jolene K. Jesse (2004). _Standing Our Ground: A Guidebook for STEM Educators in the Post-Michigan Era_. American Association for the Advancement of Science. ISBN 0871686996.  

## External links[edit]

  * [1]
  * A Report 1985-2002 from MINT
  * About eSTEM
  * NASA information for educators
  * National Institute of Aerospace (NIA) Education Outreach
  * NASA Pre-Service Teacher Institute
  * "The Gender Chip Project" A documentary by Helen De Michiel on Women in STEM Fields
  * Water Careers Interactive Job Chart – Provides information on STEM related careers in the water industry
  * STEM2Stern – US Navy's program to promote STEM careers
  * Raising the Bar: Reviewing STEM Education in America: Hearing before the Subcommittee on Early Childhood, Elementary and Secondary Education, Committee on Education and the Workforce, U.S. House of Representatives, One Hundred Thirteenth Congress, First Session, April 10, 2013

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Science,_technology,_engineering,_and_mathematics&oldid=816655698"

Categories:

  * Education by subject
  * Education policy
  * Experiential learning
  * Science education
  * Engineering education
  * Mathematics education
  * Learning programs
  * Technology
  * Science and technology studies

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from September 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016
  * Pages using div col with small parameter
  * Free-content attribution
  * Free content from UNESCO
  * Articles containing video clips

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Català
  * Deutsch
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Français
  * Italiano
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Polski
  * Српски / srpski
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 22 December 2017, at 20:12.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

