

# Subra Suresh

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Subra Suresh  
---  
9th President, Carnegie Mellon University  
**In office**  
1 July 2013  – 1 Jun 2017  
Preceded by | Jared Cohon  
Succeeded by | Farnam Jahanian (interim)  
Personal details  
Born | 30 May 1956  
Mumbai (Bombay), India  
Alma mater | Indian Institute of Technology, Madras  
Iowa State University  
Massachusetts Institute of Technology  
Awards | Benjamin Franklin Medal (2013)  
Timoshenko Medal (2012)  
Eringen Medal (2008)  
European Materials Medal (2007)  
  
**Subra Suresh** is a scientist, researcher, academic, and most recently
served as the president of Carnegie Mellon University from 2013 to 2017. On 13
July 2017, it was announced that he would be taking over as President of
Nanyang Technological University, Singapore with effect from 1 January 2018.

Suresh served as Director of the National Science Foundation from 2010 to
2013. Before his appointment to NSF, he was the Vannevar Bush Professor of
Engineering at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology (MIT), where he was
the Dean of the School of Engineering (2007-2010).

In October 2013, Suresh was elected to the Institute of Medicine, now known as
the National Academy of Medicine, the branch of the U.S. National Academies
that honors researchers in medicine and health care. He already had been
elected to the National Academy of Sciences (2012) and the National Academy of
Engineering (2002). Suresh is one of only 19 American scientists to be elected
to all three branches, and the only current university president to hold this
distinction. He is the first Asian-born professor to lead any of the five
schools at MIT and the first Asian-born scientist to lead NSF.[1]

His appointment as president of Carnegie Mellon University was announced on 5
February 2013.[2] Commenting on Suresh's tenure at NSF, President Obama
stated, "We have been very fortunate to have Subra Suresh guiding the National
Science Foundation... He has shown himself to be a consummate scientist and
engineer – beholden to evidence and committed to upholding the highest
scientific standards. He has also done his part to make sure the American
people benefit from advances in technology, and opened up more opportunities
for women, minorities, and other underrepresented groups. I am grateful for
his service."[3]

President Suresh stepped down from his position at Carnegie Mellon University
on 30 June 2017.[4] On 13 July 2017, Suresh was named the 4th President of
Singapore's Nanyang Technological University, Singapore (Singapore NTU),
succeeding Professor Bertil Andersson. He will begin his presidency on 1
January 2018.[5]

## Contents

  * 1 Background and education
  * 2 Leadership Roles
    * 2.1 Brown University
    * 2.2 MIT
    * 2.3 NSF
    * 2.4 Carnegie Mellon University
  * 3 Research
    * 3.1 Publications, Patents
  * 4 Honors
  * 5 References
  * 6 External links

## Background and education[edit]

Suresh graduated from 12th grade in Tamil Nadu, India, at the age of 15. He
received his BTech from the Indian Institute of Technology Madras in Chennai
in May 1977 and his MS from Iowa State University in May 1979. He completed
his doctoral thesis two years later, in August 1981, at the Massachusetts
Institute of Technology, receiving a ScD.

## Leadership Roles[edit]

### Brown University[edit]

Suresh joined Brown University in December 1983 as Assistant Professor of
Engineering and was promoted to Associate Professor with tenure in July 1986
and to Professor in July 1989. In 1985, he was selected by the White House to
receive the NSF Presidential Young Investigator Award. Prior to and during his
tenure at Brown University, he received many other honors including: The Hardy
Gold Medal "for exceptional promise of a successful career in the broad field
of metallurgy by a metallurgist under the age of 30," and the 1985 Matthewson
Gold Medal from The Minerals, Metals & Materials Society for the best paper
published in _Metallurgical Transactions_ , and the 1992 Ross Coffin Purdy
Award from the American Ceramic Society for the best paper published in the
Journal of the American Ceramic Society during 1990. In 1991, he authored
_Fatigue of Materials_ , a book published by Cambridge University Press. This
book has been cited more than 4,500 times (Google Scholars) by scientists and
engineers in scholarly publications, adopted as both a textbook and a
reference work, and translated into Chinese and Japanese.

### MIT[edit]

Prior to assuming his position as director of NSF, Suresh served as MIT's Dean
of Engineering from July 2007[6] and had held MIT faculty appointments in
Materials science and Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Biological
Engineering, and Health Sciences and Technology. He headed MIT's Department of
Materials Science and Engineering from 2000–2006.

In his leadership roles at MIT, he helped create new state-of-the-art
laboratories, a new undergraduate curriculum in materials science and
engineering, the MIT Transportation Initiative, and the Center for
Computational Engineering; led MIT's efforts in establishing the Singapore-MIT
Alliance for Research and Technology (SMART) Center; and oversaw the
recruitment of a record number of women faculty in engineering.[7] As Dean of
Engineering, he launched and/or oversaw the growth of a number of MIT's major
international programs in Asia, the Middle East, Europe and the Americas.

### NSF[edit]

In June 2010, Suresh was nominated by U.S. President Barack Obama[8] to be the
Director of the National Science Foundation and was unanimously confirmed by
the U.S. Senate in September 2010.[9] From 2010–2013, he led[10] this
independent federal agency with an annual (U.S.)$7-billion budget; according
to its 2013 Fact Sheet, "its programs and initiatives keep the United States
at the forefront of science and engineering, empower future generations of
scientists and engineers, and foster economic growth and innovation. NSF funds
discovery, learning, innovation, and research infrastructure to boost U.S.
leadership in all aspects of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics
research and education. In Fiscal Year 2012, NSF supported more than 300,000
individuals in 1,895 institutions in every state in the United States."[11]

As Director of NSF, Suresh established a number of new initiatives including
Integrated NSF Support Promoting Interdisciplinary Research and Education
(INSPIRE); Partnerships for Enhanced Engagement in Research (PEER), in
collaboration with the United States Agency for International Development
(USAID); Science Across Virtual Institutes (SAVI); the NSF Career-Life Balance
Initiative; Graduate Research Opportunities Worldwide (GROW); and the NSF
Innovation Corps (I-Corps).[12]

Suresh served as a member of the National Science and Technology Council
(NSTC), a cabinet-level council comprising federal agency heads and cabinet
secretaries. He also co-chaired the NSTC Committee on Science and the
Committee on Science, Technology, Engineering and Mathematics (STEM)
Education, and he is a member of the cabinet-level National Ocean Council.
Suresh also chaired the Interagency Arctic Research Policy Committee (IARPC),
which helped set priorities for coordinating future arctic research across the
federal government. Under Suresh's leadership, IARPC released a multiagency
five-year strategic plan.[13]

In response to an invitation from the White House Office of Science and
Technology Policy, Suresh chaired a Global Summit on Scientific Merit Review
at NSF in May 2012. This Summit included the participation, for the first
time, of the heads of leading science funding agencies from nearly 50
countries.[14] Summit participants endorsed a _Statement of Principles of
Scientific Merit Review_ to serve as a basis of potential multilateral
collaborations in the future.[15] The participants also collectively launched
a virtual entity, the Global Research Council (GRC), in an attempt to co-
ordinate practices so as to enhance international collaboration in Science
among developed and developing countries.[16][17] In an editorial about the
Summit, published in Science magazine, Suresh stated, "Good science anywhere
is good science everywhere", ( _Science_ , Vol 336, page 959, 25 May 2012
issue).

### Carnegie Mellon University[edit]

Dr. Suresh was the 9th president of Carnegie Mellon University, assuming
office on 1 July 2013.[2] Suresh maintains faculty appointments in Carnegie
Mellon's Departments of Materials Science and Engineering, Biomedical
Engineering, Engineering and Public Policy, Computational Biology Department,
and in the Heinz College.

It is normally the case where fields in STEM (science, technology,
engineering, and math) have a much higher proportion of male students than
female. The concern is that not only do women feel unwelcome and
underrepresented in the classrooms, but the long-term effect is a male-
dominated industry filled with biased researches being done with results that
are skewed to represent men, and the general scientific innovations either
mis- or under-represent women. In 1995, "only 7% of freshman Computer Science
majors" were women.[18] Since then, until 2004, Carnegie Mellon University
implemented strategic processes that included reaching out to high school
girls who did well in math and science through Technights,[19] to adjusting
their admissions process so that they sought for a student’s potential as well
as experience, until in 2004, the percentage of freshman girls majoring
Computer Science reached 42%.[18] Suresh, who once worked with the Obama
administration on initiatives to promote women in STEM fields has been further
pushing for diversity in the math and sciences field. "Change can’t happen by
fiat from a top executive," he said. "It takes awareness on the part of deans,
faculty and staff members, and others."[20] Carnegie Mellon University’s
gender ratio in these fields "soars above national average."[21]

On 17 February 2016 Carnegie Mellon University announced it had settled the
patent infringement lawsuit filed by the university in 2009. The proceeds of
the settlement totaled $750 million; a portion of which will be shared with
the inventors.[22] According to Suresh, the university will receive about $250
million. A substantial majority[23] of that amount will be dedicated to
benefit students succeed and supporting programs that "enhance the student
experience" according to the school’s website.

"’There is broad consensus across the university that we should dedicate a
substantial majority of this resource to helping qualified students afford a
Carnegie Mellon education, helping all students succeed while they are here,
and enhancing the student experience,’ Suresh wrote in an email to the global
Carnegie Mellon community. "[22] "A key part of Carnegie Mellon's mission is
making discoveries that have global impact".[22][24]

During his time as the president of the university, Subra Suresh has almost
increased the amount of donations and sponsorships by five-fold, gathering
donations from various corporations and businesses. Upon taking office, Suresh
was able to bring in a $67 million donation and gift from CMU alumnus and
renowned hedge fund investor, David Tepper (Tepper ‘82). The gift was made by
David Tepper to "create a major new academic hub that will further strengthen
collaboration among CMU's schools and colleges."[25] This donation is the
largest gift from a CMU alumnus and for a building project in the university’s
history, allowed for the creation of the Tepper Quadrangle set for completion
in the fall of 2017. In 2015, Suresh was able to gather two more donations
from corporations, a $35 million gift from Tata Consultancy and a $5.5 million
gift from Uber, providing a gateway for further research and innovation at the
institution.[26][27]

In early 2017 Suresh pledged support to the students of Carnegie Mellon in
lieu of President Trump’s immigration ban.[28][29] In a letter circulated to
students, Subra Suresh commented that he was "deeply troubled by some of the
news out of Washington in recent days, and potential threats – explicit and
implicit – posed to the work of so many students and scholars across the
nation who were not born in the United States."[30] Suresh personally
recounted his journey as an immigrant to the United States writing, " first
came to the U.S. at age 21 with a partially filled suitcase, less than $100 in
cash, and a one-way airplane ticket purchased with a loan. Once in the U.S., I
was able to pursue a series of extraordinary opportunities for scholarship and
service without regard for my national origin — an experience that forged in
me an unshakeable faith in the ability of this nation to help everyone to
succeed, wherever they came from."[30] Suresh further pledged support to
protect any Carnegie Mellon Student affected by President Trump’s ban.

Subra Suresh has been very open about his immigrant background and has
advocated for diversity in higher education. In 2014 he commented to the
Pittsburgh Gazette that, "Diversity in the broadest sense — intellectual,
cultural, ethnic, racial or national origin — intrinsically enhances artistic
and technical innovation."[31]

On 1 June 2017 Subra Suresh announced that he would be stepping down as
president of Carnegie Mellon University as of 30 June 2017.[32]

Prof Suresh has been appointed the 4th President of Nanyang Technological
University Singapore, succeeding Prof Bertil Andersson who steps down in
December 2017.[33]

## Research[edit]

His experimental research focuses on modeling of the mechanical properties of
structural and functional materials, the design and characterization of
possible connections between cellular nanomechanical processes and on the
study of human disease states. Some of this work has spawned new fields in the
fertile interdisciplinary intersections of traditional disciplines in
engineering, physical sciences, life sciences, and medicine. More than 100
students, postdoctoral fellows, and visiting scholars have been members of his
research group, and many of them now occupy prominent positions in academia,
industry, and government worldwide.

### Publications, Patents[edit]

Suresh is the author or co-author of more than 240 research articles in
international journals, co-editor of five books, and co-inventor on 22 U.S.
and international patent applications. He has authored or co-authored three
material science books: _Fatigue of Materials_ , _Fundamentals of Functionally
Graded Materials_ , and _Thin Film Materials_. In 2011, Science Watch/Thomson
Reuters selected Suresh as one of the top-100 scientists for the decade
2000-2010 in its worldwide ranking of the field of Materials Science.[34]

Suresh's research contributions at the intersections of engineering, physical
sciences, life sciences, and medicine include:

  * Identification of key mechanisms that influence the growth of fatigue cracks in a wide variety of brittle and ductile materials
  * Development of experimental and computational methods for optimising the mechanical performance of composites and compositionally graded materials
  * Formulation of new experimental methods and algorithms for linking the mechanical characteristics of thin films, coatings, and multi-layered materials with performance
  * Study of nanocrystallisation during room-temperature mechanical contact in metallic glasses
  * Development of strategies to optimise strength, ductility, and damage tolerance of materials through the controlled introduction of nano-scale internal interfaces
  * Delineation of important links between the mechanics of individual blood cells and human disease states, through experiments and computation
  * Elucidation of the role of RESA [ring-infected erythrocyte surface antigen] protein in modulating the mechanical properties and rheological response of human blood cells invaded by malaria parasites
  * Development of new microfluidic platforms for human disease diagnostics, therapeutics and drug efficacy essays

## Honors[edit]

In 2013, Suresh was elected to the Institute of Medicine. He is also a member
of the National Academy of Sciences and the National Academy of Engineering

In 2011, Suresh received the Padma Shri award, India's fourth highest civilian
honor, bestowed by the President of India.[35] Other honors include the 2006
Acta Materialia Gold Medal; the 2007 European Materials Medal, the highest
honor conferred by the Federation of European Materials Societies comprising
27 countries; the 2008 Eringen Medal of the Society of Engineering Science;
the 2011 General President's Gold Medal from the Indian National Science
Congress; the 2012 R.F. Mehl Award from The Minerals, Metals & Materials
Society; the 2011 Nadai Medal from the American Society of Mechanical
Engineers (ASME); and the 2011 National Materials Advancement Award from the
Federation of Materials Societies. He also received ASME's 2012 Timoshenko
Medal, the highest recognition in the field of theoretical and applied
mechanics.

In 2008, he received the A. Cemal Eringen Medal.

Suresh received the Franklin Institute's 2013 Benjamin Franklin Medal in
Mechanical Engineering and Materials Science for "outstanding contributions to
our understanding of the mechanical behavior of materials in applications
ranging from large structures down to the atomic level. This research also
showed how deformation of biological cells can be linked to human
disease."[36][37]

Suresh also received the Alan Cottrell Gold Medal for his pioneering work on
fracture and fatigue of materials at the 2013 International Conference on
Fracture.[38]

Suresh with Malcolm Johnson (left) and William J. Burns (right), 2016

Suresh is a member of the Spanish Royal Academy of Engineering; Spanish Royal
Academy of Sciences; German National Academy of Sciences; Royal Swedish
Academy of Engineering Sciences; Academy of Sciences for the Developing World
(TWAS) in Trieste, Italy; Indian National Academy of Engineering; Indian
Academy of Sciences (Bangalore); and, most recently in 2014, the Chinese
Academy of Sciences and the French Academy of Sciences in 2016. He is a
recipient of 11 honorary doctorate degrees from universities in the United
States, Sweden, Spain, Switzerland, India, China, and the United Kingdom.

Suresh has been elected a fellow or honorary fellow of various materials
societies in the United States and India, including the Materials Research
Society, the American Society for Materials International; The Minerals,
Metals & Materials Society; the American Society of Mechanical Engineers; the
American Ceramic Society; the Indian Institute of Metals; and the Materials
Research Society of India.

He became a member of the board of directors of Battelle in August 2014. He is
a director of the Allegheny Conference on Community Development and a member
of the board of directors of the Pittsburgh Symphony Orchestra. In April 2015,
he was awarded the IRI Medal by the Industrial Research Institute.[39]

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Carnegie Mellon University". www.cmu.edu.  
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Carnegie Mellon Selects Ninth President" (Press release). Carnegie Mellon University. 5 February 2013. Retrieved  5 February 2013. 
  3. **^** White House, Press Secretary (2 June 2013). "Statement from the President on the Departure of Subra Suresh". Retrieved 12 February 2013. 
  4. **^** "A Personal Message to the CMU Community" (Press release). Carnegie Mellon University. 1 June 2017. Retrieved  1 June 2017. 
  5. **^** "Professor Subra Suresh named President of NTU Singapore". 2017-07-13. Retrieved  2017-07-13. 
  6. **^** "Suresh Is New Dean of Engineering". _MIT News_. 14 June 2007.  
  7. **^** MIT. "Subra Suresh to head National Science Foundation". MIT. Retrieved 9 April 2012. 
  8. **^** Mervis, Jeffrey (11 June 2010). "Obama's Nominee to Lead NSF Lauded for Science and Management Skills". _Science_. **328** (5984): 1340–1341. doi:10.1126/science.328.5984.1340-a. PMID 20538922. Retrieved  9 April 2012. 
  9. **^** Jones, R.M. (2010). "Senate Confirms Subra Suresh as National Science Foundation Director". _FYI: the AIP Bulletin of Science Policy News_ (103). Retrieved  23 March 2012. 
  10. **^** Hand, E. (2011). "Merit comes first: National Science Foundation director Subra Suresh reveals how his agency is coping with a grim fiscal outlook". _Nature_. **477** (7364): 263. doi:10.1038/477263a. PMID 21921894.  
  11. **^** National Science Foundation. "NSF Fact Sheet" (PDF). 
  12. **^** Morrissey, Susan (23 January 2012). "Subra Suresh". _Chemical & Engineering News_. **90** (4): 9–12. Retrieved  2 April 2012. 
  13. **^** "Arctic Research Plan 2013–2017" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 8 March 2017. Retrieved 22 March 2013. 
  14. **^** Suresh, Subra (12 August 2011). "Moving Toward Global Science". _Science_. **333** (6044): 802. doi:10.1126/science.1210025. PMID 21835985. Retrieved  2 April 2012. 
  15. **^** "Statement of Principles for Scientific Merit Review*" (PDF). Retrieved 7 June 2012. 
  16. **^** "Global Summit on Merit Review". Retrieved  7 June 2012. 
  17. **^** Suresh, S. (25 May 2012). "Cultivating Global Science". _Science_. **336** (6084): 959. doi:10.1126/science.1224580. PMID 22628620. Retrieved  7 June 2012. 
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Education (2013-10-02). "How Carnegie Mellon Increased The Proportion Of Women In Computer Science". Business Insider. Retrieved 2017-02-23. 
  19. **^** "Creative Technology nights (TechNights), Carnegie Mellon". _Women.cs.cmu.edu_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  20. **^** Anderson, Nick (2016-09-16). "Carnegie Mellon pushes for more women in engineering and computer science". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  21. **^** "CMU's Proportion of Undergraduate Women in Computer Science and Engineering Soars Above National Averages-CMU News - Carnegie Mellon University". _Cmu.edu_. 2016-09-12. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Carnegie Mellon Settles Patent Lawsuit-CMU News - Carnegie Mellon University". _Cmu.edu_. 2016-02-17. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  23. **^** "Marvell to Pay $750 Million in Settlement With Carnegie Mellon". _WSJ.com_. 2016-02-17. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  24. **^** "Carnegie Mellon Receives $20 Million from Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation To Build a New Home for the Study of Computer Science". _Cmu.edu_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  25. **^** "Press Release: Carnegie Mellon Receives $67 Million Gift from David Tepper To Transform Pittsburgh Campus-CMU News - Carnegie Mellon University". _Cmu.edu_. 2013-11-15. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  26. **^** Schackner, Bill (2015-08-26). "Carnegie Mellon gets $35M donation | Pittsburgh Post-Gazette". _Post-gazette.com_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  27. **^** "Uber and Carnegie Mellon University's Partnership". _Newsroom.uber.com_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  28. **^** McFarland, Matt (2017-01-30). "For MIT and Carnegie Mellon presidents, the immigration ban is personal - Jan. 30, 2017". _Money.cnn.com_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  29. **^** Conroy, Anthony (2017-01-30). "In letter, CMU president gets personal about immigration | Pittsburgh Post-Gazette". _Post-gazette.com_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Executive Orders and Immigration - Leadership - Carnegie Mellon University". _Cmu.edu_. 2017-01-28. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  31. **^** Roth, Mark (2014-11-23). "Pittsburgh's New Immigrants: CMU president Subra Suresh makes the case for diversity | Pittsburgh Post-Gazette". _Post-gazette.com_. Retrieved  2017-02-23. 
  32. **^** "A Personal Message to the CMU Community". _Cmu.edu_. 2017-06-01. Retrieved  2017-06-01. 
  33. **^** "Eminent American Scientist to Head NTU". _straitstimes.com_. 2017-07-13. Retrieved  2017-07-13. 
  34. **^** Thomson Reuters. "Top 100 Materials Scientists". _Science Watch_. Thomson Reuters. Retrieved  12 April 2012. 
  35. **^** "P Rama Rao Gets Padma Vibhushan; Padma Shri for Subra Suresh". _The Times of India – Times Now_. 25 January 2011. Retrieved  23 March 2012. 
  36. **^** Franklin Institute. "Press Release". Franklin Institute. Retrieved 22 October 2012. 
  37. **^** "Benjamin Franklin Medal in Mechanical Engineering". Franklin Institute. 2013. Retrieved  April 29, 2013. 
  38. **^** "13th International Conference on Fracture". _www.ICF13.org_. Retrieved  19 December 2016. 
  39. **^** "2015 Medalist". _www.iriweb.org_. Retrieved  8 September 2015. 

## External links[edit]

  * Biography at Carnegie Mellon University

Political offices  
---  
Preceded by  
Arden L. Bement, Jr. | **Director of theNational Science Foundation**  
2010–2013 |  Succeeded by  
France Cordova  
Academic offices  
Preceded by  
Jared Cohon | **President,Carnegie Mellon University**  
2013–2017 |  Succeeded by  
Farnam Jahanian (interim)  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Presidents of Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
  
  * Arthur Hamerschlag (1903)
  * Thomas Baker (1922)
  * Robert Doherty (1936)
  * John Warner (1950)
  * Guyford Stever (1965)
  * Richard Cyert (1972)
  * Robert Mehrabian (1990)
  * Jared Cohon (1997)
  * Subra Suresh (2013)
  * Farnam Jahanian (interim) (2017)

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 66528812
  * LCCN: n84136804
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 1661 9017
  * SUDOC: 031674658
  * BNF: cb122844893 (data)

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Subra_Suresh&oldid=802261384"

Categories:

  * Living people
  * 1956 births
  * American male scientists of Indian descent
  * American people of Tamil descent
  * Indian Institute of Technology Madras alumni
  * Iowa State University alumni
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology alumni
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology faculty
  * National Science Foundation
  * Recipients of the Padma Shri in science & engineering
  * Members of the United States National Academy of Engineering
  * Foreign Members of the Chinese Academy of Sciences
  * Foreign Fellows of the Indian National Science Academy
  * Presidents of Carnegie Mellon University
  * American academics of Indian descent

Hidden categories:

  * EngvarB from July 2016
  * Use dmy dates from July 2016
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * Deutsch
  * मराठी
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * Português

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 25 September 2017, at 01:00.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

