

# Tartan

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from Tartans)

Jump to: navigation, search

For other uses, see Tartan (disambiguation).

Three tartans. Tartan is regarded as a cultural icon of Scotland.[1]

Part of a series on the  
---  
Culture of Scotland  
History  
People  
  
Languages

  * Scottish Gaelic
  * Broad Scots
  * Scottish English
  * Pictish
  * Norn

  
  
Traditions

  * Dress
  * Hackle
  * Burning of the Clavie
  * Burns supper
  * Common Riding
  * Crofting
  * Saining
  * Scots law
  * Scottish clan
  * Skalk
  * Up Helly Aa
  * Units of measurement

  
  
Mythology and folklore

  * Mythology
  * folklore

  
  
Cuisine  
  
Festivals

  * St. Andrew's Day
  * Hogmanay
  * Burns supper
  * Tartan Day
  * Lanimer Day
  * Imbolc
  * Bealltainn/May Day
  * Lùnastal
  * Samhainn

  
  
Religion  
Art  
Literature  
  
Music and performing arts

  * Music
  * Performing arts

  
  
Media

  * Radio
  * Television
  * Cinema

  
  
Sport

  * Golf
  * Curling
  * Football
  * Haggis hurling
  * Hailes
  * Highland games
  * Horseracing
  * Rugby sevens
  * Rugby union
  * Shinty
  * Shot put

  
  
Monuments

  * World Heritage Sites

  
  
Symbols

  * Flag
  * Coat of arms
  * Lion Rampant
  * Thistle
  * Tartan
  * Celtic cross
  * Celtic knot
  * Scottish inventions and discoveries

  
  
  *   * Scotland portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
Soldiers from a Highland Regiment circa 1744. The private (on the left) is
wearing a belted plaid.

**Tartan** (Scottish Gaelic: _breacan_ [ˈbɾʲɛxkən] ) is a pattern consisting
of criss-crossed horizontal and vertical bands in multiple colours. Tartans
originated in woven wool, but now they are made in many other materials.
Tartan is particularly associated with Scotland. Scottish kilts almost always
have tartan patterns. Tartan is often called _plaid_ in North America, but in
Scotland, a plaid is a tartan cloth slung over the shoulder as a kilt
accessory, or a plain ordinary blanket such as one would have on a bed.

Tartan is made with alternating bands of coloured (pre-dyed) threads woven as
both warp and weft at right angles to each other. The weft is woven in a
simple twill, two over—two under the warp, advancing one thread at each pass.
This forms visible diagonal lines where different colours cross, which give
the appearance of new colours blended from the original ones. The resulting
blocks of colour repeat vertically and horizontally in a distinctive pattern
of squares and lines known as a _sett_.

The Dress Act of 1746 attempted to bring the warrior clans under government
control by banning the tartan and other aspects of Gaelic culture. When the
law was repealed in 1782, it was no longer ordinary Highland dress, but was
adopted instead as the symbolic national dress of Scotland.

Until the middle of the nineteenth century, the highland tartans were only
associated with either regions or districts, rather than any specific Scottish
clan. This was because like other materials, tartan designs were produced by
local weavers for local tastes and would usually only use the natural dyes
available in that area, as chemical dye production was non-existent and
transportation of other dye materials across long distances was prohibitively
expensive.

The patterns were simply different regional checked-cloth patterns, chosen by
the wearer's preference—in the same way as people nowadays choose what colours
and patterns they like in their clothing, without particular reference to
propriety. It was not until the mid-nineteenth century that many patterns were
created and artificially associated with Scottish clans, families, or
institutions who were (or wished to be seen as) associated in some way with a
Scottish heritage.[2] The Victorians' penchant for ordered taxonomy and the
new chemical dyes then available meant that the idea of specific patterns of
bright colours, or "dress" tartans, could be created and applied to a faux-
nostalgic view of Scottish history.

Today tartan is no longer limited to textiles, but is used on non-woven
mediums, such as paper, plastics, packaging, and wall coverings.[3]

## Contents

  * 1 Etymology and terminology
  * 2 Construction
    * 2.1 Colour: shades and meaning
  * 3 History
    * 3.1 Origins
    * 3.2 Royal patronage and the tartan craze
    * 3.3 Clan tartans
  * 4 Popular tartans
  * 5 Other tartans
  * 6 Tartan in fashion
  * 7 Tartan registration
  * 8 Tartan etiquette
  * 9 See also
  * 10 Notes
  * 11 Footnotes
  * 12 References
  * 13 External links

## Etymology and terminology[edit]

The English word "tartan" is most likely derived from the French _tartarin_
meaning "Tartar cloth".[4] It has also been suggested that "tartan" may be
derived from modern Scottish Gaelic _tarsainn_ ,[5] meaning "across". Today
"tartan" usually refers to coloured patterns, though originally a tartan did
not have to be made up of any pattern at all. As late as the 1830s tartan was
sometimes described as "plain coloured ... without pattern".[6] Patterned
cloth from the Gaelic-speaking Scottish Highlands was called _breacan_ ,
meaning many colours. Over time the meanings of _tartan_ and _breacan_ were
combined to describe certain type of pattern on a certain type of cloth. The
pattern of a tartan is called a _sett_. The sett is made up of a series of
woven threads which cross at right angles.[6]

Today _tartan_ is generally used to describe the pattern, not limited to
textiles.[6] In North America the term _plaid_ is commonly used to describe
_tartan_.[7] The word _plaid_ , derived from the Scottish Gaelic _plaide_ ,
meaning "blanket",[8] was first used of any rectangular garment, sometimes
made up of tartan, particularly that which preceded the modern kilt (see:
belted plaid). In time, _plaid_ was used to describe blankets themselves.[7]

##  Construction[edit]

Diagram A, the warp

Diagram B, the weft

Diagram C, the tartan. The combining of the warp and weft.

Each thread in the warp crosses each thread in the weft at right angles. Where
a thread in the warp crosses a thread of the same colour in the weft they
produce a solid colour on the tartan, while a thread crossing another of a
different colour produces an equal mixture of the two colours. Thus, a set of
two base colours produces three different colours including one mixture. The
total number of colours, including mixtures, increases quadratically with the
number of base colours so a sett of six base colours produces fifteen mixtures
and a total of twenty-one different colours. This means that the more stripes
and colours used, the more blurred and subdued the tartan's pattern
becomes.[6][9]

The sequence of threads, known as the sett, starts at an edge and either
repeats or reverses on what are called _pivot_ points. In _diagram A_ , the
sett reverses at the first pivot, then repeats, then reverses at the next
pivot, and will carry on in this manner horizontally. In _diagram B_ , the
sett reverses and repeats in the same way as the warp, and also carries on in
the same manner vertically. The diagrams left illustrate the construction of a
"symmetrical" tartan. However, on an "asymmetrical" tartan, the sett does not
reverse at the pivots, it just repeats at the pivots. Also, some tartans (very
few) do not have exactly the same sett for the warp and weft. This means the
warp and weft will have alternate _thread counts_.

Tartan is recorded by counting the threads of each colour that appear in the
sett.[note 1] The _thread count_ not only describes the width of the stripes
on a sett, but also the colours used. For example, the thread count "K4 R24
K24 Y4" corresponds to 4 _black_ threads, 24 _red_ threads, 24 _black_
threads, 4 _yellow_ threads.[10] The first and last threads of the thread
count are the pivot points.[3] Though thread counts are indeed quite specific,
they can be modified in certain circumstances, depending on the desired size
of the tartan. For example, the sett of a tartan (about 6  inches) may be too
large to fit upon the face of a necktie. In this case the thread count has to
be reduced _in proportion_ (about 3  inches).[10]

### Colour: shades and meaning[edit]

The colour of the Clan MacLeod tartan was described in a 1829 letter by Sir
Thomas Dick Lauder to Sir Walter Scott; "MacLeod (of Dunvegan) has got a
sketch of this splendid tartan, three black stryps upon ain yellow fylde".

The shades of colour in tartan can be altered to produce variations of the
same tartan. The resulting variations are termed: _modern_ , _ancient_ , and
_muted_. These terms refer to colour only. _Modern_ represents a tartan that
is coloured using chemical dye, as opposed to natural dye. In the mid-19th
century natural dyes began to be replaced by chemical dyes which were easier
to use and were more economic for the booming tartan industry. Chemical dyes
tended to produce a very strong, dark colour compared to the natural dyes. In
_modern_ colours, setts made up of blue, black and green tend to be obscured.
_Ancient_ refers to a lighter shade of tartan. These shades are meant to
represent the colours that would result from fabric aging over time. _Muted_
refers to tartan which is shade between _modern_ and _ancient_. This type of
tartan is very modern, dating only from the early 1970s. This shade is said to
be the closest match to the shades attained by natural dyes used before the
mid-19th century.[11]

The idea that the various colours used in tartan have a specific meaning is
purely a modern one. One such myth is that red tartans were "battle tartans",
designed so they would not show blood. It is only recently created tartans,
such as Canadian provincial and territorial tartans (beginning 1950s) and US
state tartans (beginning 1980s), that are designed with certain symbolic
meaning for the colours used. For example, the colour _green_ sometimes
symbolises prairies or forests, _blue_ can symbolise lakes and rivers, and the
colour _yellow_ is sometimes used to symbolise various crops.[12]

##  History[edit]

### Origins[edit]

The earliest image of Scottish soldiers wearing tartan, from a woodcut c.
1631[13][note 2]

Today tartan is mostly associated with Scotland; however, the earliest
evidence of tartan is found far afield from the British Isles. According to
the textile historian E. J. W. Barber, the Hallstatt culture of Central
Europe, which is linked with ancient Celtic populations and flourished between
the 8th and 6th centuries BC, produced tartan-like textiles. Some of them were
discovered in 2004, remarkably preserved, in the Hallstatt salt mines near
Salzburg, Austria.[5] Textile analysis of fabric from the Tarim mummies in
Xinjiang, northwestern China has also shown it to be similar to that of the
Iron Age Hallstatt culture.[14] Tartan-like leggings were found on the
"Cherchen Man", a 3,000-year-old mummy found in the Taklamakan Desert.[15]
Similar finds have been made in central Europe and Scandinavia.[6] The
earliest documented tartan in Britain, known as the "Falkirk" tartan, dates
from the 3rd century AD. It was uncovered at Falkirk in Stirlingshire,
Scotland, about 400 metres north-west of the Antonine Wall. The fragment was
stuffed into the mouth of an earthenware pot containing almost 2,000 Roman
coins. The Falkirk tartan has a simple check design, of natural light and dark
wool. Early forms of tartan like this are thought to have been invented in
pre-Roman times, and would have been popular among the inhabitants of the
northern Roman provinces[16][17] as well as in other parts of Northern Europe
such as Jutland, where the same pattern was prevalent.[18][19][20]

John Campbell of the Bank, 1749. The present official Clan Campbell tartans
are predominantly blue, green and black.[21]

The tartan as we know it today is not thought to have existed in Scotland
before the 16th century. By the late 16th century there are numerous
references to striped or checkered plaids. It is not until the late 17th or
early 18th century that any kind of uniformity in tartan is thought to have
occurred.[22] Martin Martin, in _A Description of the Western Islands of
Scotland_ , published in 1703, wrote that Scottish tartans could be used to
distinguish the inhabitants of different regions. He expressly wrote that the
inhabitants of various islands and the mainland of the Highlands were not all
dressed alike, but that the setts and colours of the various tartans varied
from isle to isle.[note 3] As he does not mention the use of a special pattern
by each family, it would appear that such a distinction is a modern one.

For many centuries the patterns were loosely associated with the weavers of a
particular area, though it was common for highlanders to wear a number of
different tartans at the same time. A 1587 charter granted to Hector Maclean
of Duart requires feu duty on land paid as 60 ells of cloth of white, black
and green colours. A witness of the 1689 Battle of Killiecrankie describes
"McDonnell's men in their triple stripes". From 1725 the government force of
the _Highland Independent Companies_ introduced a standardised tartan chosen
to avoid association with any particular clan, and this was formalised when
they became the Black Watch regiment in 1739.

The world's first permanent colour photograph, taken by English photographer
Thomas Sutton in 1861, was of a tartan ribbon.[24]

The most effective fighters for Jacobitism were the supporting Scottish clans,
leading to an association of tartans with the Jacobite cause. Efforts to
pacify the Highlands led to the Dress Act of 1746, banning tartans, except for
the Highland regiments of the British army. ″[I]t was probably their use of it
which gave birth to the idea of differentiating tartan by clans; for as the
Highland regiments were multiplied ... so their tartan uniforms were
differentiated."[25] The Act was repealed in 1782 due to the efforts of the
Highland Society of London. William Wilson & Sons of Bannockburn became the
foremost weaving manufacturer around 1770 as suppliers of tartan to the
military. Wilson corresponded with his agents in the Highlands to get
information and samples of cloth from the clan districts to enable him to
reproduce "perfectly genuine patterns" and recorded over 200 setts by 1822,
many of which were tentatively named. The Cockburn Collection of named samples
made by William Wilson & Sons was put together between 1810 and 1820 and is
now in the Mitchell Library in Glasgow. At this time many setts were simply
numbered, or given fanciful names such as the "Robin Hood" tartan, not
associated with any specific clan.

By the 19th century the Highland romantic revival, inspired by James
Macpherson's Ossian poems and the writings of Sir Walter Scott, led to wider
interest, with clubs like the Celtic Society of Edinburgh welcoming
Lowlanders. The pageantry invented for the 1822 visit of King George IV to
Scotland brought a sudden demand for tartan cloth and made it the national
dress of the whole of Scotland, rather than just the Highlands and Islands,
with the invention of many new clan-specific tartans to suit.

### Royal patronage and the tartan craze[edit]

Further information: Visit of King George IV to Scotland

Wilkie's idealised depiction of George IV, in full Highland dress, during the
visit to Scotland in 1822[note 4]

The popularity of tartan was greatly increased by the royal visit of George IV
to Edinburgh in 1822. George IV was the first reigning monarch to visit
Scotland in 171 years.[27] The festivities surrounding the event were
originated by Sir Walter Scott who founded the Celtic Society of Edinburgh in
1820. Scott and the Celtic Society urged Scots to attend festivities "all
plaided and plumed in their tartan array".[28] One contemporary writer
sarcastically described the pomp that surrounded the celebrations as "Sir
Walter's Celtified Pagentry".[28][29]

Following the royal visit several books which documented tartans added to the
craze. James Logan's romanticised work _The Scottish Gael_ , published in
1831, was one such publication which led the Scottish tartan industry to
invent clan tartans.[30] The first publication showing plates of clan tartans
was the _Vestiarium Scoticum_ , published in 1842.[31] The _Vestiarium_ was
the work of two brothers: John Sobieski and Charles Allen Hay. The brothers,
who called themselves _John Sobieski Stolberg Stuart_ and _Charles Edward
Stuart_ , first appeared in Scotland in 1822. The two claimed to be grandsons
of Prince Charles Edward Stuart and his wife Princess Louise of Stolberg, and
consequently later became known as the "Sobieski Stuarts". The Sobieski
Stuarts claimed that the _Vestiarium_ was based upon a copy of an ancient
manuscript on clan tartans—a manuscript which they never managed to
produce.[32] The _Vestiarium_ was followed by the equally dubious _The Costume
of the Clans_ two years later.[30] The romantic enthusiasm that Logan and the
Sobieski Stuarts generated with their publications led the way for other
tartan books in the 19th century.[28][31]

Twenty years after her uncle's visit to Scotland, Queen Victoria and her
husband Prince Albert made their first trip to the Scottish Highlands. The
Queen and prince bought Balmoral Castle in 1848 and hired a local architect to
re-model the estate in "Scots Baronial" style. Prince Albert personally took
care of the interior design, where he made great use of tartan. He utilised
the red _Royal Stewart_ and the green _Hunting Stewart_ tartans for carpets,
while using the _Dress Stewart_ for curtains and upholstery. The Queen
designed the _Victoria_ tartan, and Prince Albert the _Balmoral_ , still used
as a royal tartan today. Victoria and Albert spent a considerable amount of
time at their estate, and in doing so hosted many "Highland" activities.
Victoria was attended by pipers and her children were attired in Highland
dress. Prince Albert himself loved watching the Highland games.[33][note 5]
Ironically, as the craze swept over Scotland the Highland population suffered
grievously from the Highland Clearances, when thousands of Gaelic-speaking
Scots from the Highlands and Isles were evicted by landlords (in many cases
the very men who would have been their own clan chiefs) to make way for
sheep.[28]

### Clan tartans[edit]

David Morier's _An incident in the rebellion of 1745_. The eight featured
highlanders in the painting wear over twenty different tartans.[35]

A man wearing tartan

It is generally regarded that "clan tartans" date no earlier than the
beginning of the 19th century, and are an example of an invented tradition. It
is maintained by many that clan tartans were not in use at the time of the
Battle of Culloden in 1746. The method of identifying friend from foe was not
through tartans but by the colour of ribbon worn upon the bonnet.[note 6][note
7] David Morier's well-known painting of the Highland charge at the Battle of
Culloden shows the clansmen wearing various tartans. The setts painted all
differ from one another and very few of those painted show any resemblance to
today's clan tartans.[38] Contemporary portraits show that although tartan is
of an early date, the pattern worn depended not on the wearer's clan, but upon
his or her location, or personal taste. The idea of groups of men wearing the
same tartan is thought to originate from the military units in the 18th
century. Evidence suggests that in 1725 the Independent Highland Companies may
have worn a uniform tartan.[38]

The naming and registration of official clan tartans began on 8 April 1815,
when the Highland Society of London (founded 1778) resolved that all the clan
chiefs each "be respectfully solicited to furnish the Society with as much of
the Tartan of his Lordship's Clan as will serve to Show the Pattern and to
Authenticate the Same by Attaching Thereunto a Card bearing the Impression of
his Lordship's Arms." Many had no idea of what their tartan might be, but were
keen to comply and to provide authentic signed and sealed samples. Alexander
Macdonald, 2nd Baron Macdonald of Sleat was so far removed from his Highland
heritage that he wrote to the Society: "Being really ignorant of what is
exactly The Macdonald Tartan, I request you will have the goodness to exert
every Means in your power to Obtain a perfectly genuine Pattern, Such as Will
Warrant me in Authenticating it with my Arms."

Today tartan and "clan tartan" is an important part of a Scottish clan. Almost
all Scottish clans have several tartans attributed to their name. Several
clans have "official" tartans. Although it is possible for anyone to create a
tartan and name it any name they wish, the only person with the authority to
make a clan's tartan "official" is the chief.[note 8] In some cases, following
such recognition from the clan chief, the clan tartan is recorded and
registered by the Lord Lyon King of Arms. Once approved by the Lord Lyon,
after recommendation by the Advisory Committee on Tartan, the clan tartan is
then recorded in the Lyon Court Books.[38] In at least one instance a clan
tartan appears in the heraldry of a clan chief and is considered by the Lord
Lyon as the "proper" tartan of the clan.[note 9]

## Popular tartans[edit]

It is generally stated that one of the most popular tartans today is the
_Royal Stewart tartan_. This is the personal tartan of Queen Elizabeth II. The
sett was first published in 1831 in the book _The Scottish Gael_ by James
Logan. In addition to its use in clothing, such as skirts and scarves, Royal
Stewart tartan has also appeared on biscuit tins for Scottish shortbread.[40]

Another popular tartan is the _Black Watch_ (also known as _Old Campbell_ ,
_Grant Hunting_ , _Universal_ , _Government_ ).[12] This tartan was used and
is still used by several military units in the British Army and other
Commonwealth forces.

  * Royal Stewart tartan

  * Black Watch tartan

## Other tartans[edit]

A boy wearing Hunting MacGregor tartan

In addition to clan tartans, many tartan patterns have been developed for
individuals, families, districts, institutions, and corporations. They have
also been created for various events and certain ethnic groups.[note 10]
Tartan has had a long history with the military and today many military
units—particularly those within the Commonwealth—have tartan dress
uniforms.[42] Tartans or tartan-like plaid patterns are also commonly worn as
skirts or jumpers/pinafores in Catholic school uniform and other private
school uniform codes in North America.

Many regional tartans are officially recognised by government bodies. In
Canada, most provinces and territories have an official tartan, with the first
dating from 1956.[43] Canada has an official national tartan that was
originally designed to commemorate the introduction of its new maple leaf
flag, and was made an official national emblem in 2011.[44] Several Canadian
counties and municipalities also have official tartans.[note 11] Many of the
U.S. states also have official tartans, with the first dating from 1988. In
Scotland at least two local government councils have official tartans.[47]

Tartan is sometimes differentiated from another with the same name by the
label _dress_ or _hunting_. Dress tartans are based on the _earasaid_ tartans
worn by Highland women in the 17th and 18th centuries.[note 12] Dress tartans
tend to be made by replacing a prominent colour with the colour white. They
are commonly used today in Highland dancing. Hunting tartans are also a
Victorian conception.[49][note 13] These tartans tend to be made up of subdued
colours, such as dark blues and greens. Despite the name, hunting tartans have
very little to do with actual hunting.[7] Mourning tartans, though quite rare,
are associated with death and funerals. They are usually designed using
combinations of black and white.[51]

Clever Victorian entrepreneurs not only created new tartans, but new tartan
objects called _tartanware_. Tartan was incorporated in an assortment of
common household objects, such as snuffboxes, jewellery cases, tableware,
sewing accessories, and desk items. Tourists visiting the Scottish Highlands
went home with it, and Scottish-based businesses sent tartanware out as gifts
to customers. Some of the more popular tartans were the _Stewart_ , _McDonald_
, _McGregor_ , _McDuff_ , _MacBeth_ , and _Prince Charlie_.[52] Today
tartanware is widely collected in England and Scotland.[53]

##  Tartan in fashion[edit]

A German punk wearing a piece of the Royal Stewart tartan, 1984

In the Victorian and Edwardian eras, tartan-clad garments were featured in
fashion catalogues. By then, tartan had shifted from being mainly a component
of men's clothing to become an important part of women's fashion. In
consequence of its association with the British aristocracy and military,
tartan developed an air of dignity and exclusivity. Because of this, tartan
has made reappearances in the world of fashion several times. For instance,
tartan made a resurgence in its use in punk fashion. In the late 1970s, punk
music was a way for youth in the British Isles to voice their discontent with
the ruling class. The unorthodox use of tartan, which had long been associated
with authority and gentility, was then seen as the expression of discontent
against modern society. In this way tartan, worn unconventionally, became an
anti-establishment symbol.[54][55]

## Tartan registration[edit]

Clan Armstrong tartan

Depending upon how "different tartan" is defined, it has been estimated that
there are about 3,500[56] to 7,000[57] different tartans, with around 150 new
designs being created every year.[57] With four ways of presenting the hues in
the tartan—"modern", "ancient", "weathered", and "muted" colours—there are
thus about 14,000 recognised tartan variations from which to choose. The 7,000
figure above includes many of these variations counted as though they were
different tartans.[57]

Coat of arms of the now-defunct Scottish Tartans Society

Until the late 20th century, instead of a central, official tartan registry,
several independent organisations located in Scotland, Canada, and the United
States documented and recorded tartans.[58] In the 1960s, a Scottish society
called the Scottish Tartans Society (now defunct) was created to record and
preserve all known tartan designs.[59] The society's register, the _Register
of All Publicly Known Tartans_ ( _RAPKT_ ), contains about 2,700 different
designs of tartan.[56] The society, however, ran into financial troubles in
about the year 2000, and folded.[60] Former members of the society then formed
two new Scottish-based organisations—the Scottish Tartans Authority (STA) and
the Scottish Tartans World Register (STWR). Both of these societies initially
based their databases on the RAPKT. The STA's database, the International
Tartan Index (ITI) consists of about 3,500 different tartans (with over 7,000,
counting variants), as of 2004.[56] The STWR's self-titled Scottish Tartans
World Register database is made up of about 3,000 different designs as of
2004.[56] Both organisations are registered Scottish charities and record new
tartans (free in the case of STS and for a fee in the case of STWR) on
request.[61][62] The STA's ITI is larger, in part, because it has absorbed the
entries recorded in the _TartanArt_ database formerly maintained by the merged
International Association of Tartan Studies and Tartan Educational and
Cultural Association (IATS/TECA), based in the United States, and with whom
the STA is directly affiliated. [ _citation needed_ ]

The Scottish Register of Tartans (SRT) is Scotland's official tartan register.
The _SRT_ is maintained and administrated by the National Archives of Scotland
(NAS), a statutory body based in Edinburgh.[63] The aim of the Register is to
provide a definitive and accessible resource to promote and preserve tartans.
It also aims to be the definitive source for the registration of new tartans
(that pass NAS criteria for inclusion). The register itself is made up of the
existing registers of the STA and the STWR as they were at the time of the
SRT's launch, and new registrations from 5 February 2009 onward. On the
Register's website users can register new tartans (for a fee), search for and
request the threadcounts of existing tartans and receive notifications of
newly registered tartans.[64][65] One criticism of the SRT and NAS's
management of it is that its exclusivity, in both cost and criteria,
necessarily means that it cannot actually achieve its goals of definiteness,
preservation and open access. The current version of the STA's ITI, for
example, already contains a large number of tartans that do not appear in the
SRT, and the gulf will only widen under current policy.[66]

##  Tartan etiquette[edit]

Burberry check

Since the Victorian era, authorities on tartan have stated that there is an
etiquette to wearing tartan, specifically tartan attributed to clans or
families. This concept of the entitlement to certain tartans has led to the
term of _universal tartan_ , or _free tartan_ , which describes tartan which
can be worn by anyone. Traditional examples of such are _Black Watch_ ,
_Caledonian_ , _Hunting Stewart_ , and _Jacobite_ tartans.[67] In the same
line of opinion, some tartan attributed to the British Royal Family are
claimed by some to be "off limits" to non-royalty.[68][69] Even so, there are
no rules on who can, or cannot, wear a particular tartan. Note that some
modern tartans are protected by trademark law, and the trademark proprietor
can, in certain circumstances, prevent others from selling that tartan.[12]
The "Burberry Check" of the English fashion house, first designed in early
1920s, is an instantly recognisable tartan that is very well known around the
world[70] and is an example of a tartan that is protected.[note 14]

Many books on Scottish clans list such rules and guidelines.[12] One such
opinion is that people not bearing a clan surname, or surname claimed as a
sept of a clan, should not wear the tartan of their mother's clan.[73] This
opinion is enforced by the fact that in the Scottish clan system, the Lord
Lyon states that membership to a clan technically passes through the surname.
This means that children who bear their father's surname belong to the
father's clan (if any), and that children who bear their mother's surname (her
maiden name) belong to their mother's clan (if any).[74] Also, the Lord Lyon
states that a clan tartan should only be worn by those who profess allegiance
to that clan's chief.[75] Some clan societies even claim that certain tartans
are the personal property of a chief or chieftain, and in some cases they
allow their clansfolk "permission" to wear a tartan.[note 15] According to the
Scottish Tartans Authority—which is closely associated with the Scottish
tartan industry—the _Balmoral_ tartan should not be worn by anyone who is not
part of the British Royal Family. Even so, some weavers outside of the United
Kingdom ignore the "longstanding convention" of the British Royal Family's
"right" to this tartan. The society also claims that non-royals who wear this
tartan are treated with "great disdain" by the Scottish tartan
industry.[77][note 16] Generally, a more liberal attitude is taken by those in
the business of selling tartan, stressing that anyone may wear any tartan they
like. These "rules" are mere conventions; there are no laws regarding the
wearing of any tartan.

##  See also[edit]

  * Scotland portal
  * United Kingdom portal

  * List of tartans
  * List of U.S. state tartans, officially recognised tartans of states in the US (created in the 1980s)
  * Regional tartans of Canada, officially recognised tartans of the provinces and territories of Canada (created in the 1950s)
  * Tartan Army, popular name for the fans of the Scotland football team
  * Tartan Day, a day of celebration, in Canada and the US, recognising the influence of Scottish immigration to these countries
  * Tartanry
  * Carnegie Mellon University, whose athletic mascot is Scotty the Scottie Dog; their athletic teams are known as "The Tartans"
  * _Vestiarium Scoticum_ , the Victorian forgery that is the source of many of today's clan tartans
  * Sobieski Stuarts
  * Flannel
  * Plaid (pattern)
  * Check (pattern)
  * Madras (cloth)
  * Argyle (pattern)

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** Early collectors of tartan recorded setts by measuring the width of each stripe in one eighths of an inch.[10]
  2. **^** The Highlanders depicted were sometimes mistakenly described as Irish "Irrelander oder Irren". It is thought that the soldiers depicted were part of Mackay's Regiment which served under Gustavus Adolphus in Stettin (present-day Szczecin, Poland). The men are depicted in dress varying from belted plaid, draped plaids and tartan breeches with tartan hose.[13]
  3. **^** Martin Martin wrote: "each Isle differs from the other in thir fancy of making Plaids, as to the Stripes in Breadth and Colours. this Humour is as different thro the main Land of the Highlands, in so-far that they who have seen these Places are able, at the first view of a Man's Plaid to guess the Place of his Residence ..."[23]
  4. **^** Sir David Wilkie's portrait of George IV depicts the king as being much slimmer than he actually was. Wilkie covered up the fact the king's kilt was too short — sitting well above the knees — and also left out the pink tights the king wore to hide his bare legs.[26]
  5. **^** Queen Victoria wrote of her time in Scotland: "Yes; and I feel a sort of reverence in going over these scenes in this most beautiful country, which I am proud to call my own, where there was such devoted loyalty to the family of my ancestors – for Stuart blood is in my veins, and I am now their representative, and the people are as devoted and loyal to me as they were to that unhappy race".[34]
  6. **^** James Ray who served in the government forces at the Battle of Culloden, wrote in 1752: "In their flight I came up with a pretty young Highlander, who called out to me, Hold your Hand, I'm a Cambell. On which I asked him, Where's your Bonnet ? He reply'd, Somebody have snatched it off my Head. I only mention this to shew how we distinguished our loyal Clans from the Rebels ; they being dress'd and equip'd all in one Way, except the Bonnet ; ours having a red or yellow Cross of Cloath or Ribbon ; theirs a white Cockade".[36]
  7. **^** Kass McGann, citing _A Journal of the Expedition of Prince Charles Edward in 1745, by a Highland Officer_ which states: "We M’Donalds were much preplex’d, in the event of ane ingagement, how to distinguish ourselves from our bretheren and nighbours the M’Donalds of Sky, seeing we were both Highlanders and both wore heather in our bonnets, only our white cockades made some distinction", claims that this further supports the thought that the idea of clan tartans is a late invention.[37]
  8. **^** Although there are many tartans attributed to the Campbells, and many tartans named _Campbell_ , there are only four tartans recognised by the current chief as Clan Campbell tartans: _Campbell_ (a.k.a. _Black Watch_ ), _Campbell of Breadalbane_ , _Campbell of Cawdor_ , and _Campbell of Loudoun_.[21]
  9. **^** The crest of the chief of Clan MacLennan is _A demi-piper all Proper, garbed in the proper tartan of the Clan Maclennan_.[39] Note the highland MacLennans use the same tartan as the lowland Logans. Clan Logan is currently without a chief.
  10. **^** For example tartans have been created for Chinese, Jewish and Sikh communities.[41] See also: Jewish tartan.
  11. **^** For example, Bruce County has an official tartan.[45] An example of a Canadian municipality with an official tartan is that of Beauport, Quebec City.[46]
  12. **^** The Scottish Gaelic _earasaid_ refers to a shawl — in this case a tartan shawl — worn by women.[48]
  13. **^** Even so, the 16th century historian, George Buchanan wrote: "They delight in variegated garments, especially striped, and their favorite colours are purple and blue. Their ancestors wore plaids of many different colours and numbers still retain this custom, but the majority, now, in their dress, prefer a dark brown, imitating nearly the leaves of heather; than when lying upon the heath in the day, they may not be discovered by the appearance of their clothes".[50]
  14. **^** In 2003 Burberry demanded members of the tartan industry to stop trading a certain _Camel Thompson_ tartan.[71] Burberry claimed this tartan, which dates from 1906, was confusingly similar to their _Burberry Check_ and that it thus infringed their registered trademark.[71][72]
  15. **^** For example, the Clan Cameron Association website states that the _Cameron of Lochiel_ tartan "is the personal tartan of the Chief and his immediate family; as a rule it should not be worn by clansfolk".[76]
  16. **^** The only non-royal permitted by the Royal Family to wear the _Balmoral_ tartan is the Queen's personal piper.[69] The official Web site of the monarchy of the United Kingdom claims the tartan is not available for purchase.[78]

##  Footnotes[edit]

  1. **^** "British Style Genius - Country Style - Tartan". BBC. Retrieved  22 February 2017. 
  2. **^** Newsome, Matthew Allan C. (1994). "Introduction to Tartan". Franklin, North Carolina: Scottish Tartans Museum. Archived from the original on 10 February 2006. Retrieved 31 May 2010. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Tartangenerator.com – tartan design software
  4. **^** "tartan (n.)". Online Etymology Dictionary. Retrieved 2015.   Check date values in: `|access-date=` (help)
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: p. 57.
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "Submission From James D Scarlett" (PDF). Scottish Parliament. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-12-19. Retrieved 12 October 2008. 
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Frequently Asked Questions". scottishtartans.org. Archived from the original on 17 April 2000. Retrieved  16 October 2008. 
  8. **^** MacBain 1911: p. 277. See also: Merriam-Webster 2003: p. 947.
  9. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: p. 61.
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "What's a Threadcount". Scottish Tartans Authority. Archived from the original on 4 June 2004. Retrieved  16 October 2008. 
  11. **^** MacDonald, Peter Eslea. "The Use of Colour in Tartan". Scottish Tartans Authority. Archived from the original on 4 June 2004. Retrieved 22 October 2008. 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ MacDonald 1995: p. 48.
  13. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: p. 63.
  14. **^** Fortson 2004: p. 352.
  15. **^** Coonan, Clifford (28 August 2006). "A meeting of civilisations: The mystery of China's celtic mummies". _The Independent_. Archived from the original on 3 April 2008. Retrieved  11 October 2008. 
  16. **^** "Tartan – Shepherd/Falkirk". Scottish Tartans World Register. Archived from the original on 4 October 2011. Retrieved  8 October 2008. 
  17. **^** "Search Results (falkirk tartan)". National Museums Scotland. Retrieved  8 October 2008. 
  18. **^** J. P. Wild, Britannia, Vol. 33, 2002 (2002)
  19. **^** J. P. Wild, _The Classical Quarterly_ , New Series, Vol. 14, No. 2 (Nov. 1964)
  20. **^** _Anglo-Saxon Thegn, 449–1066 A.D._ , by Mark Harrison, Osprey Publishing 1993, ISBN 1-85532-349-4. page 17
  21. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Which are the authentic Campbell tartans?". ccsna.org. Retrieved  9 October 2008. 
  22. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: pp. 66–67.
  23. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: pp. 65–66. Banks and de la Chapelle cite this quotation from Scarlett, James D. _Tartan, The Highland Textile_ , p. 12.
  24. **^** Jacobson _et al_. 2000: p. 228.
  25. **^** * Hugh Trevor-Roper (1983). "The Invention of Tradition: The Highland Tradition of Scotland". In Hobsbawm, Eric; Ranger, Terence. _The Invention of Tradition_. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-24645-8.  
  26. **^** "An incident during the visit of George IV to Edinburgh, 1822". National Galleries of Scotland. Retrieved  9 January 2017. 
  27. **^** Moncreiffe of that Ilk 1967: p. 24.
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Magnusson 2003: pp. 653–654.
  29. **^** Duncan 2007: pp. 7–8.
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: pp. 106–108.
  31. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ MacDonald, Peter. "A Short History of Tartan". scottishtartans.co.uk. Retrieved 7 October 2008. 
  32. **^** Wilton, Brian. "History of Tartan". Scottish Tartans Authority. Archived from the original on 22 March 2004. Retrieved 6 October 2008. 
  33. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: pp. 108–109.
  34. **^** Victoria 1885: p. 173.
  35. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: 84.
  36. **^** Ray 1752: p. 344.
  37. **^** McGann, Kass (2003). "The Evolution of the Kilt – The Question of Clan Tartans". reconstructinghistory.com. Retrieved 6 October 2008. 
  38. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Campbell of Airds (2000), pp. 259–261.
  39. **^** Way of Plean; Squire 2000: p. 214.
  40. **^** Marketing". p. 9. Haymarket Press, 1973
  41. **^** Schwartzapfel, Beth (17 July 2008). "Sound the Bagpipes: Scots Design Jewish Tartan". _The Jewish Daily Forward_. Retrieved  10 May 2009. 
  42. **^** Hutcheson, Colin W. "Regimental Tartans". Scottish Tartans Authority. Retrieved 1 May 2010. 
  43. **^** "The Government of Canada Invites Canadians to Celebrate Tartan Day". Department of Canadian Heritage. 5 April 2008. Archived from the original on 8 June 2011. Retrieved  24 September 2008. 
  44. **^** "Tartans". Department of Canadian Heritage. Archived from the original on 16 August 2002. Retrieved  24 September 2008. 
  45. **^** "Tartan Details - Bruce County". _The Scottish Register of Tartans_. Retrieved  9 January 2017. 
  46. **^** "Tartan Details - Ville de Beauport". _The Scottish Register of Tartans_. Retrieved  9 January 2017. 
  47. **^** "Check out our new tartan". _The Scotsman_. 17 September 2008. Retrieved  24 September 2008. 
  48. **^** MacBain 1911: p. 151.
  49. **^** "Hunting Tartans". tartans.scotland.net. Retrieved  20 October 2008. 
  50. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: p. 68. Banks and de la Chapelle cite this quotation from Grant, I. F.; Cheape, Hugh _Periods in Highland History_. New York: Barnes  & Noble. p. 8.
  51. **^** "Mourning Tartans". tartans.scotland.net. Retrieved  20 October 2008. 
  52. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: pp. 21–22.
  53. **^** "19th-century Scottish kitch is today's collectible: Collecting tartanware". coastalantiques.com. Archived from the original on 16 September 2004. Retrieved  25 October 2008. 
  54. **^** Banks; de la Chapelle 2007: p. 26–27.
  55. **^** Ash; Wright 1988: p. 63.
  56. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Newsome, Matthew Allan C. (December 2004). "What's the 'Official' Word About Tartans?". Clemmons, North Carolina: Albanach.org. Archived from the original on 9 April 2009. Retrieved 21 May 2010. 
  57. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Holyrood Supports Tartan Register". London, England: BBC News Online. 19 September 2008. pp. "Scotland" section. Retrieved  24 September 2008. 
  58. **^** "Consultation on the Creation of A Register of Tartan" (PDF). Scottish Parliament. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2005-10-27. Retrieved 9 September 2008. 
  59. **^** "Scottish Tartans Society". Scottish Tartans World Register. Retrieved  7 September 2008. 
  60. **^** "Scottish Register of Tartans Bill" (PDF). Scottish Parliament. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2008-12-19. Retrieved 8 September 2008. 
  61. **^** "About us". Scottish Tartans Authority. Archived from the original on 24 March 2004. Retrieved  12 September 2008. 
  62. **^** "About the Scottish Tartan World Register". Scottish Tartans World Register. Retrieved  7 September 2008. 
  63. **^** "About Us". Scottish Register of Tartans. Retrieved  8 February 2009. 
  64. **^** "Home". Scottish Register of Tartans. Retrieved  8 February 2009. 
  65. **^** "Guidance". Scottish Register of Tartans. Retrieved  8 February 2009. 
  66. **^** Wilton, Brian. "Registering a Tartan". Crieff, Scotland: Scottish Tartans Authority. Archived from the original on 18 December 2010. Retrieved 21 May 2010. 
  67. **^** "Universal Tartans". tartans.scotland.net. Retrieved  18 October 2008. 
  68. **^** "Royal Tartans". tartans.scotland.net. Retrieved  18 October 2008. 
  69. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Hutcheson, Colin W. "Royal Tartans". Scottish Tartans Authority. Retrieved 9 January 2017. 
  70. **^** Haig 2004: p. 143.
  71. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ McDougall, Liam (18 May 2003). "Fashion giant Burberry tries to kill off traditional tartan rival". findarticles.com. Retrieved 7 May 2009. [ _dead link_ ] Note that this article was originally published in the _Sunday Herald_.
  72. **^** "Tartan – Thompson/Thomson/MacTavish camel". Scottish Tartans World Register. Retrieved  18 October 2008. 
  73. **^** _The Scottish Clans and Their Tartans_ 2005: p. 14.
  74. **^** Court of the Lord Lyon. "Information Leaflet No.2 – Scottish Crest Badges" (PDF). scotarmigers.net. Retrieved 27 December 2011. 
  75. **^** "Tartans". Court of the Lord Lyon. Retrieved  16 October 2008. 
  76. **^** "The "Basics" of Clan Cameron". clan-cameron.org. Retrieved  18 October 2008. 
  77. **^** "Tartan – FAQ". Scottish Tartans Authority. Archived from the original on 4 June 2004. Retrieved  18 October 2008. 
  78. **^** "Piping in the Balmoral Tartan". royal.gov.uk. Archived from the original on 4 December 2008. Retrieved  20 October 2008. 

## References[edit]

  * _The Scottish Clans and Their Tartans_. Kessinger Publishing. 2005. ISBN 1-4179-6815-X.   (originally published by: W. & A. K. Johnston & G. W. Bacon Ltd., Edinburgh and London, 1944).
  * Ash, Juliet; Wright, Lee (1988). _Components of Dress: Design, Manufacturing, and Image-making in the Fashion Industry_. Routledge. ISBN 0-415-00647-3.  
  * Banks, Jeffrey; de la Chapelle, Doria (2007). _Tartan: Romancing the Plaid_. New York: Rizzoli. ISBN 978-0-8478-2982-8.  
  * Campbell of Airds, Alastair (2000). _A History of Clan Campbell; Volume 1, From Origins to the Battle of Flodden_. Edinburgh: Edinburgh University Press. ISBN 1-902930-17-7.  
  * Duncan, Ian (2007). _Scott's Shadow: The Novel in Romantic Edinburgh_. Princeton University Press. ISBN 0-691-04383-3.  
  * Fortson, Benjamin W (2004). _Indo-European Language and Culture: An Introduction_. Blackwell Publishing. ISBN 1-4051-0316-7.  
  * Haig, Matt (2004). _Brand Royalty: How the World's Top 100 Brands Thrive and Survive_. Kogan Page Publishers. ISBN 0-7494-4257-3.  
  * Jacobson, Ralph E; Ray, Sidney F.; Attridge, Geoffrey G.; Axford, Norman R (2000). _The Manual of Photography: Photographic and Digital Imaging_. Focal Press. ISBN 0-240-51574-9.  
  * MacBain, Alexander (1911). _An Etymological Dictionary of the Gaelic language_. Stirling: Eneas Mackay.  
  * MacDonald, Micheil (1995). _The Clans of Scotland, The History and Landscape of the Scottish Clans_. London: Grange Books. ISBN 1-85627-749-6.  
  * Merriam-Webster (2003). _Merriam-Webster's Collegiate Dictionary_ (11th ed.). Merriam-Webster. ISBN 0-87779-809-5.  
  * Magnusson, Magnus (2003). _Scotland: The Story of a Nation_. Grove Press. ISBN 0-8021-3932-9.  
  * Moncreiffe of that Ilk, Iain (1967). _The Highland Clans_. London: Barrie  & Rocklif. 
  * Way of Plean, George; Squire, Romilly (2000). _Clans & Tartans_. Glasgow: HarperCollins. ISBN 0-00-472501-8. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
  * Ray, James (1752). _Compleat History of the Rebellion, From its first Rise, in 1745, to its total Suppression at the glorious Battle of Culloden, in April 1746_.  
  * Stewart, Donald Calder; Thompson, J. Charles (1980). Scarlett, James, ed. _Scotland's Forged Tartans, An analytical study of the Vestiarium Scoticum_. Edinburgh: Paul Harris Publishing. ISBN 0-904505-67-7.  
  * Victoria, Queen of the United Kingdom, Empress of India (1885). _More leaves from the journal of a life in the Highlands, from 1862 to 1882_ (New ed.). London: Smith, Elder & Co.  CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
  * _Tartans_ , ed. Blair Urquhart, The Apple Press, London, 1994, ISBN 1-85076-499-9
  * _Clans and Tartans  — Collins Pocket Reference_, George Way of Plean and Romilly Squire, HarperCollins, Glasgow 1995, ISBN 0-00-470810-5
  * Hugh Trevor-Roper (1983). "The Invention of Tradition: The Highland Tradition of Scotland". In Hobsbawm, Eric; Ranger, Terence. _The Invention of Tradition_. Cambridge University Press. ISBN 0-521-24645-8.  
  * _History of highland dress: A definitive study of the history of Scottish costume and tartan, both civil and military, including weapons_ , John Telfer Dunbar, ISBN 0-7134-1894-X.

## External links[edit]

| Look up _**tartan**_ in Wiktionary, the free dictionary.  
---|---  
|  Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Tartans**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Scottish Tartans Authority, The only organisation dedicated to promoting tartan - registered charity
  * The Scottish Register of Tartans, Scotland's official tartan register
  * Clans of the Scottish Highlands Fashion Plates from The Metropolitan Museum of Art Libraries

  * v
  * t
  * e

Scottish clans  
  
---  
  
List of tartans  
  
Clans with chiefs |

  * Agnew
  * Anstruther
  * Arbuthnott
  * Arthur
  * Bannerman
  * Barclay
  * Borthwick
  * Boyd
  * Boyle
  * Brodie
  * Broun
  * Bruce
  * Buchan
  * Burnett
  * Cameron
  * Campbell
  * Carmichael
  * Carnegie
  * Cathcart
  * Charteris
  * Chattan
  * Chisholm
  * Cochrane
  * Colquhoun
  * Colville
  * Cranstoun
  * Crichton
  * Cumming (Comyn)
  * Cunningham
  * Darroch
  * Davidson
  * Dewar
  * Drummond
  * Dunbar
  * Dundas
  * Durie
  * Elliot
  * Elphinstone
  * Erskine
  * Farquharson
  * Fergusson
  * Forbes
  * Forsyth
  * Fraser
  * Fraser of Lovat
  * Gordon
  * Graham
  * Grant
  * Gregor
  * Grierson
  * Gunn
  * Guthrie
  * Haig
  * Haldane
  * Hamilton
  * Hannay
  * Hay
  * Henderson
  * Home
  * Hope
  * Hunter
  * Irvine
  * Jardine
  * Johnstone
  * Keith
  * Kennedy
  * Kerr
  * Kincaid
  * Lamont
  * Leask
  * Lennox
  * Leslie
  * Lindsay
  * Lockhart
  * Lumsden
  * Lyon
  * MacAlister
  * MacBean
  * MacDonald
  * Macdonald of Clanranald
  * MacDonald of Keppoch
  * Macdonald of Sleat
  * MacDonell of Glengarry
  * MacDougall
  * Macdowall
  * MacIntyre
  * Mackay
  * Mackenzie
  * Mackinnon
  * Mackintosh
  * Maclachlan
  * Maclaine of Lochbuie
  * MacLaren
  * MacLea (Livingstone)
  * Maclean
  * MacLennan
  * MacLeod
  * MacLeod of Lewis
  * MacMillan
  * Macnab
  * Macnaghten
  * MacNeacail
  * MacNeil
  * Macpherson
  * MacTavish
  * MacThomas
  * Maitland
  * Makgill
  * Malcolm (MacCallum)
  * Mar
  * Marjoribanks
  * Matheson
  * Menzies
  * Moffat
  * Moncreiffe
  * Montgomery
  * Morrison
  * Munro
  * Murray
  * Napier
  * Nesbitt
  * Nicolson
  * Ogilvy
  * Oliphant
  * Primrose
  * Ramsay
  * Rattray
  * Riddell
  * Robertson
  * Rollo
  * Rose
  * Ross
  * Ruthven
  * Sandilands
  * Scott
  * Scrymgeour
  * Sempill
  * Shaw
  * Sinclair
  * Skene
  * Stirling
  * Strange
  * Stuart of Bute
  * Sutherland
  * Swinton
  * Trotter
  * Urquhart
  * Wallace
  * Wedderburn
  * Wemyss
  * Wood

  
  
Armigerous clans |

  * Abercromby
  * Abernethy
  * Adair
  * Adam
  * Aikenhead
  * Ainslie
  * Aiton
  * Allardice
  * Anderson
  * Armstrong
  * Arnott
  * Auchinleck
  * Baillie
  * Baird
  * Balfour
  * Bannatyne
  * Baxter
  * Bell
  * Belshes
  * Bethune
  * Beveridge
  * Binning
  * Bissett
  * Blackadder
  * Blackstock
  * Blair
  * Blane
  * Blyth
  * Boswell
  * Brisbane
  * Buchanan
  * Butter
  * Byres
  * Cairns
  * Calder
  * Caldwell
  * Callender
  * Campbell of Breadalbane
  * Campbell of Cawdor
  * Carruthers
  * Cheyne
  * Chalmers
  * Clelland
  * Clephane
  * Cockburn
  * Congilton
  * Craig
  * Crawford
  * Crosbie
  * Dalmahoy
  * Dalrymple
  * Dalzell
  * Dennistoun
  * Don
  * Douglas
  * Duncan
  * Dunlop
  * Edmonstone
  * Fairlie
  * Falconer
  * Fenton
  * Fleming
  * Fletcher
  * Forrester
  * Fotheringham
  * Fullarton
  * Galbraith
  * Galloway
  * Gardyne
  * Gartshore
  * Gayre
  * Ged
  * Gibsone
  * Gladstains
  * Glas
  * Glen
  * Glendinning
  * Gray
  * Haliburton
  * Halkerston
  * Halket
  * Hepburn
  * Heron
  * Herries
  * Hogg
  * Hopkirk
  * Horsburgh
  * Houston
  * Hutton
  * Inglis
  * Innes
  * Kelly
  * Kinloch
  * Kinnaird
  * Kinnear
  * Kinninmont
  * Kirkcaldy
  * Kirkpatrick
  * Laing
  * Lammie
  * Langlands
  * Learmonth
  * Little
  * Logan
  * Logie
  * Lundin
  * Lyle
  * MacAlpin(e)
  * MacAulay
  * Macbrayne
  * MacDuff
  * MacEwen
  * MacFarlane
  * Macfie
  * MacGillivray
  * MacInnes
  * MacIver
  * Mackie
  * MacLellan
  * Macquarrie
  * Macqueen
  * Macrae
  * Masterton
  * Maule
  * Maxton
  * Maxwell
  * McCorquodale
  * McCulloch
  * McKerrell
  * Meldrum
  * Melville
  * Mercer
  * Middleton
  * Moncur
  * Monteith
  * Monypenny
  * Mouat
  * Moubray
  * Mow
  * Muir
  * Nairn
  * Nevoy
  * Newlands
  * Newton
  * Norvel
  * Ochterlony
  * Orrock
  * Paisley
  * Paterson
  * Pennycook
  * Pentland
  * Peter
  * Pitblado
  * Pitcairn
  * Pollock
  * Polwarth
  * Porterfield
  * Preston
  * Pringle
  * Purves
  * Rait
  * Ralston
  * Renton
  * Roberton
  * Rossie
  * Russell
  * Rutherford
  * Schaw
  * Seton
  * Skirving
  * Somerville
  * Spalding
  * Spens
  * Spottiswood
  * Stewart
  * Stewart of Appin
  * Stirling
  * Strachan
  * Straiton
  * Sydserf
  * Symmers
  * Tailyour
  * Tait
  * Tennant
  * Troup
  * Turnbull
  * Tweedie
  * Udny
  * Vans
  * Walkinshaw
  * Wardlaw
  * Watson
  * Wauchope
  * Weir
  * Whitefoord
  * Whitelaw
  * Wishart
  * Young

  
  
Culture and society |

  * Scotland
  * Lord Lyon
  * Court of the Lord Lyon
  * Clan chief
  * Septs
  * Clan badge
  * Clan crest
  * Clan battles
  * Tartan
  * Bagpipes
  * Clearances
  * Kilt
  * Manrent
  * The Highlands
  * Battle of Culloden
  * Highland games
  * Border Reivers
  * Lowland Scots language
  * Scottish Gaelic language
  * Scottish heraldry
  * Scottish surnames
  * Shennachie
  * Independent Highland Companies
  * Sgian-dubh

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Scotland articles  
  
---  
  
  * List of topics

  
  
History |

  * Timeline
  * Prehistoric
  * Roman times
  * Middle Ages
  * Early Middle Ages
  * Kingdom
  * High Middle Ages
  * Davidian Revolution
  * Wars of Independence
  * Late Middle Ages
  * Renaissance
  * Early modern
  * Reformation
  * Colonisation of the Americas
  * Glorious Revolution
  * 1707 Acts of Union
  * Jacobitism
  * Enlightenment
  * Lowland Clearances
  * Highland Clearances
  * Industrial Revolution
  * Romanticism
  * Modern

|  
  
Geography |

|

  * Anglo-Scottish border
  * Central Belt
  * Climate
  * Fauna
  * Flora
  * Geology
  * Highlands
  * Islands
  * Lochs
  * Lowlands
  * Mountains and hills
  * Waterfalls

  
  
---  
Politics |

| Government |

| Politics |

  * Devolution
  * Elections
  * First Minister
  * Government
  * Human rights
    * LGBT rights
  * Independence
  * Local government
  * Military
  * Monarchs
  * Parliament
  * Political parties
  * Republicanism
  * Scotland Office
  * Secretary of State
  * Nationalism
  * Unionism

  
  
---|---  
Law |

  * Advocate General
  * Courts
  * Crown Office
  * Lord Advocate
  * Lord President
  * Procurator fiscal
  * Solicitor General
  * Sheriff principal
  * College of Justice
  * Udal law

  
  
Economy |

|

  * Agriculture
  * Bank of Scotland
  * Charities
  * Companies
  * Fishing
  * Harris Tweed
  * Housing
  * Media
  * North Sea oil
  * Power stations
  * Renewable energy
  * Royal Bank of Scotland
  * Tourism
  * Transport
  * Whisky
  * Silicon Glen
  * Unemployment

  
  
---  
Society |

|

| Culture |

  * Architecture
  * Art
  * Clans
  * Cuisine
  * Education
  * Hogmanay
  * Identity
  * Inventions and discoveries
  * Literature
  * Museums
  * Music
  * Oldest buildings
  * Performing arts
  * Prostitution
  * Royal National Mòd
  * Sport
  * Surnames
  * Symbols
    * anthem
    * coat of arms
    * flags
    * Tartan
    * unicorn
  * World Heritage Sites

  
  
---|---  
Demographics |

| Languages |

  * Highland English
  * Scottish English
  * Scottish Gaelic
  * Scots
  * British Sign Language

  
  
---|---  
People (list) |

  * Actors
  * Artists
  * Inventors
  * Musicians
  * Scientists
  * Writers

  
  
Religion |

  * Bahá'í Faith
  * Buddhism
  * Christianity
    * Christmas
    * Church of Scotland
      * General Assembly
      * Moderators
    * Roman Catholicism
    * Scottish Episcopal Church
    * Baptist Union
  * Hinduism
  * Islam
  * Judaism
  * Sikhism

  
  
  * Outline

  * Category
  * Portal

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Fabric  
  
---  
Woven |

  * Aertex
  * Airdura
  * Airguard
  * Barathea
  * Barkcloth
  * Batiste
  * Bedford cord
  * Bengaline
  * Beta cloth
  * Bombazine
  * Brilliantine
  * Broadcloth
  * Buckram
  * Bunting
  * Burlap
  * C change
  * Calico
  * Cambric
  * Canvas
  * Chambray
  * Capilene
  * Cedar bark
  * Challis
  * Char cloth
  * Charmeuse
  * Charvet
  * Cheesecloth
  * Chiffon
  * Chino
  * Chintz
  * Cloqué
  * Cloth of gold
  * Cordura
  * Corduroy
  * Duck
  * Coutil
  * Crape
  * Crêpe
  * Cretonne
  * Dazzle
  * Denim
  * Dimity
  * Donegal tweed
  * Dornix
  * Dowlas
  * Drill
  * Drugget
  * Eolienne
  * Flannel
  * Foulard
  * Fustian
  * Gabardine
  * Gauze
  * Gazar
  * Georgette
  * Ghalamkar
  * Gingham
  * Grenadine
  * Grenfell Cloth
  * Grosgrain
  * Habutai
  * Haircloth
  * Harris Tweed
  * Herringbone
  * Himroo
  * Hodden
  * Irish linen
  * Jamdani
  * Kerseymere
  * Khādī
  * Khaki drill
  * Kente cloth
  * Lamé
  * Lawn
  * Linsey-woolsey
  * Loden
  * Longcloth
  * Mackinaw
  * Madapolam
  * Madras
  * Moleskin
  * Muslin
  * Nainsook
  * Nankeen
  * Ninon
  * Oilskin
  * Organdy
  * Organza
  * Osnaburg
  * Ottoman
  * Oxford
  * Paduasoy
  * Percale
  * Pongee
  * Poplin
  * Rakematiz
  * Rayadillo
  * Rep
  * Rinzu
  * Ripstop
  * Russell cord
  * Saga Nishiki
  * Samite
  * Sateen
  * Satin
  * Saye
  * Scarlet
  * Seersucker
  * Sendal
  * Serge
  * Scrim
  * Shot silk
  * Stuff
  * Taffeta
  * Tais
  * Toile
  * Tucuyo
  * Tweed
  * Twill
  * Ultrasuede
  * Vegetable flannel
  * Ventile
  * Vinyl coated polyester
  * Viyella
  * Voile
  * Wadmal
  * Wigan
  * Whipcord
  * Zephyr
  * Zorbeez

|  
  
Figured woven |

  * Brocade
  * Camlet
  * Damask
  * Lampas
  * Songket

  
  
Pile woven |

  * Baize
  * Chenille
  * Corduroy
  * Crimplene
  * Fustian
  * Mockado
  * Moquette
  * Plush
  * Polar fleece
  * Terrycloth
  * Velours du Kasaï
  * Velvet
  * Velveteen
  * Zibeline

  
  
Nonwoven |

  * Felt
  * Cedar bark

  
  
Knitted |

  * Boiled wool
  * Coolmax
  * Machine knitting
  * Milliskin
  * Jersey
  * Velour

  
  
Netted |

  * Bobbinet
  * Carbon fiber
  * Lace
  * Mesh
  * Needlerun net
  * Ninon
  * Tulle

  
  
Technical |

  * Ballistic nylon
  * Ban-Lon
  * Conductive
  * Darlexx
  * E-textiles
  * Gannex
  * Gore-Tex
  * Silnylon
  * Spandex
  * Stub-tex
  * SympaTex
  * Windstopper

  
  
Patterns |

  * Argyle
  * Bizarre silk
  * Chiné
  * Herringbone
  * Houndstooth
  * Paisley
  * Pin stripes
  * Polka dot
  * Shweshwe
  * Tartan (plaid)
  * Tattersall

  
  
Textile fibers |

  * Acrylic
  * Alpaca
  * Angora
  * Cashmere
  * Coir
  * Cotton
  * Eisengarn
  * Hemp
  * Jute
  * Kevlar
  * Linen
  * Mohair
  * Nylon
  * Microfiber
  * Olefin
  * Pashmina
  * Polyester
  * Piña
  * Ramie
  * Rayon
  * Sea silk
  * Silk
  * Sisal
  * Spandex
  * Spider silk
  * Wool

  
  
Finishing and  
printing

|

  * Androsia
  * Batik
  * Beetling
  * Bingata
  * Bògòlanfini
  * Burnout
  * Calendering
  * Decatising
  * Devoré
  * Finishing
  * Fulling
  * Heatsetting
  * Mercerization
  * Moire
  * Nap
  * Rogan printing
  * Rōketsuzome
  * Roller printing
  * Sanforization
  * Tenterhook
  * Textile printing
  * Warp printing
  * Waxed cotton
  * Woodblock printing
  * Indienne

  
  
Fabric mills |

  * Carlo Barbera
  * Cerruti
  * Dormeuil
  * Drago
  * Ermenegildo Zegna
  * E. Thomas
  * Holland & Sherry
  * Larusmiani
  * Loro Piana
  * Reda
  * Scabal
  * Vitale Barberis Canonico

  
  
Related |

  * Dyeing
  * Fiber
  * History of textiles
  * History of silk
  * Knitting
  * Pandy
  * Shrinkage
  * Swatches and strike-offs
  * Synthetic fabric
  * Terminology
  * Manufacturing
  * Preservation
  * Weaving
  * Yarn

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tartan&oldid=814708337"

Categories:

  * Scottish clans
  * Tartans
  * Textile patterns
  * Textile arts of Scotland
  * Scottish design

Hidden categories:

  * CS1 errors: dates
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from December 2016
  * Use British English from January 2013
  * Use dmy dates from January 2013
  * Articles containing Scottish Gaelic-language text
  * Articles containing French-language text
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from October 2015
  * CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * Boarisch
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Gàidhlig
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Lietuvių
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * ไทย
  * Українська
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 10 December 2017, at 12:32.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

