

# Tepper School of Business

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

David A. Tepper School of Business  
---  
  
Former names

| Graduate School of Industrial Administration (1949-2004)  
Type | Private Business School  
Established | 1949 by William Larimer Mellon  
Endowment | $113 Million[1]  
Dean | Robert M. Dammon  
  
Academic staff

| 107[2]  
Undergraduates | 349[2]  
Postgraduates | 851[2]  
  
Doctoral students

| 105[2]  
Address | 5000 Forbes Avenue[1], Pittsburgh, PA, United States  
Campus | Urban  
Website | tepper.cmu.edu  
  
The **Tepper School of Business** is the business school of Carnegie Mellon
University. It is located in the university’s 140-acre (0.57 km 2) campus in
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, US.

The school offers degrees from the undergraduate through doctoral levels, in
addition to executive education programs.

The Tepper School of Business was originally known as the Graduate School of
Industrial Administration (GSIA), which was founded in 1949 by William Larimer
Mellon. In March 2004, the school received a record $55 million gift from
alumnus David Tepper[4] and was renamed the "David A. Tepper School of
Business at Carnegie Mellon".

A number of Nobel Prize–winning economists have been affiliated with the
school, including Herbert A. Simon, Franco Modigliani, Merton Miller, Robert
Lucas, Edward Prescott, Finn Kydland, Oliver Williamson, Dale Mortensen, and
Lars Peter Hansen.

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Undergraduate Programs
    * 2.1 Undergraduate Business
    * 2.2 Undergraduate Economics
  * 3 MBA programs
  * 4 MS Computational Finance
  * 5 Doctoral Program
  * 6 Executive Education
  * 7 International study
  * 8 Research centers
  * 9 Alexander Henderson Award
  * 10 Rankings
  * 11 See also
  * 12 Notes
  * 13 External links

## History[edit]

In 1946, economist George Bach was hired by the Carnegie Institute of
Technology (predecessor of Carnegie Mellon University) to restart the school’s
economics department. Bach had previously been working at the Federal Reserve
during World War II. He added William W. Cooper from the field of Operations
Research (which had increased its visibility during the war) and Herbert A.
Simon, a political scientist who was to direct the undergraduate business
program. The beginnings of the Cold War were applying pressure on the academic
community to increase US managerial ability, and when William Larimer Mellon
gave a $6 million grant to found a school of industrial administration, Bach
became the first dean, bringing along the entire economics department.[5]

Under Bach’s leadership, in 1958, the school's Management Game was the first
to use computer simulations for experiential learning of business roles; such
simulations have subsequently been adopted by other institutions.[6] In 1989,
the school's Financial Analysis and Security Trading Center (FAST) was the
first educational institution to successfully replicate the live international
data feeds and sophisticated software of Wall Street trading firms.[7]

Prior to the founding of the Tepper School, management education typically
used the case method approach popularized at the Harvard Business School,
based upon examples from successful companies and microeconomic theory.[8]
Although the Tepper school did not entirely abandon those traditional models
and theories, it has focused on management science, or decision making based
on quantitative models and an analytical approach.

In the 1950s and 1960s, the Tepper School of Business led the intellectual
movement known as the Carnegie School, a freshwater economics approach which
emphasized behavioral, decision-making, and quantitative methods. As an
example, the school has produced nine Nobel Prize winners in Economics: Robert
Lucas, Jr., Merton Miller, Franco Modigliani, Herbert A. Simon, Oliver E.
Williamson, Edward Prescott, Finn Kydland, Dale Mortensen, and Lars Peter
Hansen.[3] Lucas was awarded the prize for developing and applying the theory
of rational expectations, an econometric hypothesis that directly challenged
Keynesian orthodoxy.[9] Modigliani's prize recognized his life-cycle
hypothesis, which attempts to explain the level of saving in the economy.
Modigliani proposed that consumers would aim for a stable level of income
throughout their lifetime, for example by saving during their working years
and spending during their retirement.[10] Miller's prize was awarded in
recognition of his contributions to corporate finance. The results of his
research—in collaboration with Franco Modigliani—are now taught in every
business school in the country.[3][11] Simon's prize was given for his
development of the idea of bounded rationality in economics, described as
"pioneering research into the decision-making process within economic
organizations".[12] In 2004, Kydland and Prescott received the Nobel Prize for
"their contributions to dynamic macroeconomics: the time consistency of
economic policy and the driving forces behind business cycles".[13]

On March 19, 2003, David Tepper, founder of hedge fund Appaloosa Management
announced that he would make a single donation of $55,000,000 to Carnegie
Mellon University's Graduate School of Industrial Administration.[14] This
donation was made after he had been encouraged by Kenneth Dunn, his former
professor (who became dean of the school). Tepper accepted the suggestion but
made the contribution a “naming gift” and suggested that the school's name be
changed to the David A. Tepper School of Business.[15] Further, in November
2013, Carnegie Mellon announced a $67 million gift from Tepper to develop the
Tepper Quadrangle on the north campus. The Tepper Quad will include a new
Tepper School facility across the street from the Heinz College as well as
other university-wide buildings and a welcome center which will serve as a
public gateway to the university.[16]

David A. Tepper '82, benefactor of the School

Two other colleges: the School of Computer Science and the Heinz College were
spin-offs by the business school's faculty.

## Undergraduate Programs[edit]

Posner Hall, the principal teaching facility at the Tepper School

### Undergraduate Business[edit]

The school offers a traditional four-year undergraduate degree in business
administration. The program's coursework places an emphasis on quantitative
decision making and analytical problem solving. The structure of the
undergraduate program is distinctly different from the Master of Business
Administration (MBA) program, emphasizing breadth of academic experience over
focused professionally oriented courses.[17] Students major in business
administration and choose one or two of the following concentration areas to
specialize in:[18]

  * Accounting
  * Business Analytics
  * Business Technology
  * Entrepreneurship
  * Finance
  * Graphic Communications
  * International Business
  * Leadership & Organizational Effectiveness
  * Marketing
  * Operations Management

For the academic year ending in May 2007, there were 475[19] total students
enrolled in the undergraduate program.

### Undergraduate Economics[edit]

The Undergraduate Economics Program is jointly administered by the Tepper
School and the Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences. It has been
designed to prepare students for careers as economic analysts in either the
private or public sector, for advanced professional studies in business, law
and public policy, as well as for entry into PhD programs in Economics,
Finance, and related fields.[20]

View of Hamerschlag Hall at Carnegie Mellon University

## MBA programs[edit]

The school's primary MBA degree (previously named MSIA) is a two-year, full-
time program, during which most students complete an internship in the summer
between the first and second year of study. Students have the option of
waiving the summer internship and taking classes, which allows full-time
students to complete their studies in 16 months. Working professionals in the
Pittsburgh area may also complete the MBA degree in the evening as members of
the flex-time program.[ _citation needed_ ]

The mini-semester system is half the length of a traditional academic
semester, with four mini-semesters per academic year. Each is 7.5 weeks long,
and students typically take 5 different courses each mini-semester. This
system, which was pioneered by the Tepper School, allows students to take more
than 32 different courses while enrolled in the MBA program. The Tepper School
prefers this structure as students can gain exposure to a greater breadth of
topics, as well as several electives.[21]

The MBA curriculum is designed to increase in complexity and application
throughout students' time at the Tepper School. The first year builds a
fundamental skill set in the core disciplines, including Finance, Operations,
Marketing, Strategy, Organizational Behavior and Technology. Year two advances
the theories and analytical framework developed in the first year to provide
breadth and depth in areas that support corporate strategy and general
management as students complete three to four concentrations in specific
functional areas. In lieu of selecting three to four general management
concentrations, second year students may complete courses in satisfaction of
specialized **MBA Tracks**.[22]

The **Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship** at Tepper holds an annual
**Venture Competition** every spring in three tracks: Technology, Life
Sciences, and Sustainable Technology. Teams from many universities and
countries compete for cash prizes and venture startup assistance.
Entrepreneurship education was pioneered at the school in the 1970s, under the
leadership of Dr. Jack Thorne.

The **Management Game** was first introduced by Carnegie Mellon in 1958 and
has been adopted by many other business schools as an effective business
simulation model. Tepper students work with an external board of directors to
manage a multinational corporation, guiding the organization through a wide
range of issues including global expansion, labor negotiations, operations,
market share, shifting economies and financial performance.[23]

The Barco Law Building: Home of the University of Pittsburgh School of Law.
The JD/MBA program is the only Tepper School joint degree taught partially
outside of Carnegie Mellon.

They also have a Capstone project, which is like a culmination of all the
students work at Tepper. It is akin to a final year project where the students
work with various firms on real world problems.

The General Management MBA Track, the core track serves as an umbrella
academic option due to the flexibility associated with multiple
concentrations. The General Management MBA Track complements the eight other
Tepper MBA Tracks: Analytical Marketing Strategy, Biotechnology,
Entrepreneurship in Organizations, Global Enterprise Management, Management of
Innovation & Product Development, Technology Leadership, Operations Research,
and Investment Strategy.[24]

Tepper also offers the following joint and dual MBA degrees:[25]

  * Computational Finance
  * Software Engineering
  * Civil and Environmental Engineering
  * Juris Doctor (Law) with the University of Pittsburgh
  * Public Policy and Management with the Heinz College
  * Healthcare Policy and Management with the Heinz College
  * Outstanding undergraduates from any major are eligible for a 3-2 accelerated MBA program[26]

For the academic year ending in May 2007, there were 302[27] total students
enrolled in the full-time MBA program.

## MS Computational Finance[edit]

A tour group inspects the premises.

The MSCF degree is primary granted through a sixteen-month full-time program.
The school also offers a thirty-three month part-time degree program and four
non-degree certificate programs. Certificate students focus on one "stream" of
the MSCF degree curriculum: Mathematics, Statistics or Financial
Computing.[28]

The curriculum consists of courses in finance, traditional finance theories of
equity and bond portfolio management, the stochastic calculus models on which
derivative trading is based, the application of these models in both fixed
income markets and equity markets, computational methods including Monte Carlo
simulation and finite difference approximations of partial differential
equations, and statistical methodologies including regression and time series,
culminating with courses on statistical arbitrage, risk management and dynamic
asset management. Early in the program, students are taught C++, which enables
them to build the computational financial models necessary for their finance
courses. The program's capstone is a sophisticated financial computing
course.[28]

Twenty full-time faculty instruct 40 full-time students in Pittsburgh and 51
full and part-time students in the financial district of New York City.[28]
The primary method of instruction for the New York campus is live, interactive
video. Lectures are recorded and made immediately available to students via
the internet. Faculty teach twice every seven weeks in New York at which times
the students are invited to join the professor for lunch after class.[28]

## Doctoral Program[edit]

The doctoral degree is organized around a preliminary set of courses in the
core disciplines of Economics, Organization Behavior and Theory, and
Operations Research. The foundational knowledge and methodologies that
students in the doctoral program learn form the basis for further study and
research either in one of the core disciplines, or in one or more of the
remaining functional areas of business: Accounting, Financial Economics,
Information Systems, Marketing, or Manufacturing and Operating Systems.[29]

The school also offers PhD degrees jointly with other colleges in the
University:

  * Algorithms, Combinatorics, and Optimization _(joint withMathematics and Computer Science_ ) 

The Hunt Library at Carnegie Mellon University is the primary source of
hardcopy research material for students and faculty at the Tepper School

  * Behavioral Economics _(joint with theDepartment of Social and Decision Sciences)_
  * Behavioral Marketing and Decision Research _(joint with theDepartment of Social and Decision Sciences)_
  * Economics and Public Policy _(joint with theHeinz College)_
  * Management of Manufacturing and Automation _(joint with theRobotics Institute)_
  * Mathematical Finance _(joint with Mathematics)_

All doctoral candidates receive full tuition, plus a stipend for three years,
through the William Larimer Mellon Fund.[30]

## Executive Education[edit]

Tepper Executive Education offers both open enrollment and custom programs for
executive leadership training.

## International study[edit]

**Global Study Abroad**[31]

The International Management MBA Track features an eight-week global
experience in which students travel to Western and Eastern Europe to study
emerging, transitional and competitive economies. During study abroad,
students experience real-world aspects of classroom work through manufacturing
tours, presentations at financial institutions, meetings with government and
non-governmental organizations as well as the experience of living in an
international setting. This program operates in partnership with the WHU-Otto
Beisheim School of Management.

Undergraduate business students are also encouraged to explore opportunities
to learn about different cultures in which to live and work. Each year
students travel abroad as part of a capstone educational experience.

## Research centers[edit]

From its outset, academic research has been one of the primary focuses of the
Tepper School.[5][32] When speaking of the school's founders, one author
stated "Research was their fundamental engine of progress".[33] The Tepper
School has established 16 different research centers to continue the emphasis
on research established at the school's founding.

  * Accelerate Leadership Center
  * The Carnegie Mellon Electricity Industry Center
  * Center for Behavioral Decision Research
  * Center for Marketing Technology and Information
  * Center for Innovation and Entrepreneurship
  * Center for Organizational Learning, Innovation and Knowledge
  * Green Design Institute
  * PNC Center for Financial Services Innovation
  * Center for Computational Finance (jointly with the Department of Mathematical Sciences)

## Alexander Henderson Award[edit]

The Alexander Henderson Award is presented to the student at the Tepper School
of Business at Carnegie Mellon University who displays the best work in the
field of economic theory. A large proportion of the winners of the award has
later made contributions to economics that have changed the practice of the
field. Since its inception, four recipients have already been awarded the
Nobel Memorial Prize in Economics. Among the deceased award winners are John
Muth, known as "the father of the rational expectations revolution"; Albert
Ando, among the very pioneers of overlapping-generations models; and Jan
Mossin who derived the Capital Asset Pricing Model.

## Rankings[edit]

Business school rankings  
---  
Worldwide MBA  
_Business Insider_[34] |  22  
_Economist_[35] |  30  
_Financial Times_[36] |  33  
U.S. MBA  
_Bloomberg Businessweek_[37] |  15  
_Forbes_[38] |  19  
_U.S. News& World Report_[39] |  18  
U.S. undergraduate  
_Bloomberg Businessweek_[40] |  17  
_U.S. News& World Report_[41] |  6  
  
The ranking of MBA programs[42] has been discussed in articles and on academic
Web sites.[43] One study found that objectively ranking MBA programs by a
combination of graduates' starting salaries and average student Graduate
Management Admissions Test (GMAT) score can reasonably duplicate the top 20
list of the national publications.[44] The study concluded that a truly
objective ranking would be individualized to the needs of each prospective
student.[45]

**_Business Week_ Graduate Rankings – 2013**

  * #1 MBA - Part-Time MBA

**_Business Week_ Graduate Rankings – 2014**

  * #10 MBA - Overall National Ranking

**_Business Week_ Undergraduate Rankings – 2011**

  * #21 Undergraduate Business Program

**_Forbes_ – 2005**

  * #8 Part-time MBA
  * #16 Business School (Full-Time MBA)

**_Financial Times_ – 2015**

  * #17Business School in the U.S. (MBA)
  * #36 International Business School(MBA)

[46] **_Financial Times_ – 2015: A league of their own: the top 10 MBA
programmes in selected categories**

  * #5 Economics
  * #8 Finance
  * #4 e-Business

**_Financial Times_ – 2010**

  * #10 International Doctoral Program
  * #19 Business School in the U.S. (MBA)
  * #32 Research (MBA)
  * #43 International Business School(MBA)

**_U.S. News& World Report_ \- 2016 (Graduate)**

  * #18 Graduate Business School (MBA)

**_U.S. News& World Report_ \- 2017 (Undergraduate)**

  * #6 Undergraduate Business School

**_Wall Street Journal_ Rankings - 2007**

  * #5 Business School (MBA) National[47]

## See also[edit]

  * List of United States business school rankings
  * List of business schools in the United States
  * List of Carnegie Mellon University people
  * Business School

## Notes[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "School Profile". _Business Week_. Retrieved  3 March 2007. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Carnegie Mellon Quick Facts" (PDF). _CMU Website_. Retrieved  24 July 2011. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Tepper History". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2007-03-03. 
  4. **^** "Announcing a Transformational Gift". _School’s Website_. Archived from the original on 2007-02-05. Retrieved  2007-04-05. 
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Mintzburg, Henry. "Managers Not MBAs: A hard look at the soft practice of managing and management development", Berrett-Koehler Publishers, Inc., San Francisco, California, 2004.
  6. **^** "School Timeline". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2007-04-05. 
  7. **^** "The "FAST" Center". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2007-04-05. 
  8. **^** "Our Approach". _School's Website_. Archived from the original on 2007-02-05. Retrieved  2007-03-03. 
  9. **^** "Robert Lucas Biography". _The History of Economic Through Website_. Retrieved  2007-04-05. 
  10. **^** "Franco Modigliani- Autobiography". _Nobelprize.org_. Retrieved  2007-04-11. 
  11. **^** "Merton Miller- Autobiography". _Nobelprize.org_. Retrieved  11 April 2007. 
  12. **^** "Economics 1978". _Nobelprize.org_. Retrieved  2007-04-05. 
  13. **^** "Economics 2004". _Nobelprize.org_. Retrieved  2007-04-05. 
  14. **^** Bradshaw, Della (May 17, 2004). "Dean profiles Working for $1 a year". _Business Schools Ranking_. Financial Times. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 
  15. **^** "But can you teach it?". _Special Report - Business schools_. The Economist. May 20, 2004. Retrieved  2006-08-17. 
  16. **^** Retrieved November 15, 2013.
  17. **^** "CMU's Strategy for Well-Rounded B-Schoolers". _Business Week Online_. Retrieved  2007-03-07. 
  18. **^** "Business Administration Tracks". _School’s Website_. Retrieved  2015-09-23. 
  19. **^** "Undergraduate Overview". _School’s Website_. Retrieved  2007-03-03. 
  20. **^** "Undergraduate Economics". _School’s Website_. Retrieved  2007-03-03. 
  21. **^** "MBA Program Structure". _School’s Website_. Retrieved  2007-04-05. 
  22. **^** "MBA Curriculum". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2009-09-01. 
  23. **^** "Consulting Career Track" (PDF). _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2007-04-03. 
  24. **^** "MBA Tracks". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2009-09-01. 
  25. **^** "MBA Duel Degrees". _School's Website_. Retrieved  2007-03-03. 
  26. **^** "Tepper School of Business Accelerated Masters Programs". _Carnegie Mellon University course catalog website_. Retrieved  2016-08-24. 
  27. **^** "Class Profiles". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2007-04-06. 
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Degrees and Certificates". _School’s Website_. Retrieved  5 April 2007. 
  29. **^** "PhD Fields of Study". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2007-03-03. 
  30. **^** "Financial Aid and Grant Information". _Tepper School of Business website_. Retrieved  2007-04-06. 
  31. **^** "Global Programs". _School’s Website_. Retrieved  2007-03-03. 
  32. **^** "Research Centers". _School’s Website,_. Retrieved  2007-02-26. 
  33. **^** Robert E. Gleeson and Steven Schlossman, "George Leland Bach and the Rebirth of Graduate Management Education in the United States, 1945-1975." Selections: The Magazine of the Graduate Management Admission Council, 11, No. 3 (Spring 1995), 14.
  34. **^** "The 50 best business schools in the world". _Business Insider_. 2015. Retrieved  2016-02-06. 
  35. **^** "Full time MBA ranking". _Economist_. 2016. Retrieved  2017-03-15. 
  36. **^** "Global MBA Ranking". _Financial Times_. 2017. Retrieved  2017-01-31. 
  37. **^** "Best Business Schools 2016". _Bloomberg Businessweek_. 2016-11-16.  
  38. **^** "The Best Business Schools". _Forbes_. 2015. Retrieved  2016-02-06. 
  39. **^** "2018 Best Business Schools Rankings". _U.S. News& World Report_. 2017-03-13.  
  40. **^** "The Complete Ranking: Best Undergraduate Business Schools". _Bloomberg Businessweek_. 2016. Retrieved  2016-08-09. 
  41. **^** "2017 Best Undergraduate Business Programs Rankings". _U.S. News& World Report_. 2016-09-12.  
  42. **^** "RANKINGS". _School’s Website_. Retrieved  2006-04-14. 
  43. **^** "Caution and Controversy". University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign. Retrieved  2005-09-06. 
  44. **^** Schatz, Martin; Crummer, Roy E. (1993). "What's Wrong with MBA Ranking Surveys?". _Management Research News_. **16** (7): 15–18. doi:10.1108/eb028322.  
  45. **^** "Official MBA Guide". Retrieved  2007-04-11. 
  46. **^** http://www.ft.com/cms/8d2c407e-a164-11e4-bd03-00144feab7de.pdf
  47. **^** 2007 Wall Street Journal Rankings : Tepper School of Business at Carnegie Mellon. Tepper.cmu.edu. Retrieved on 2013-07-17.

##  External links[edit]

  * Tepper School of Business Website
  * Campus Map

Coordinates: 40°26′29″N 79°56′31″W﻿ / ﻿40.4415°N 79.942°W﻿ / 40.4415; -79.942

  * v
  * t
  * e

Carnegie Mellon University  
  
---  
Academics |

  * College of Engineering
  * College of Fine Arts
  * Dietrich College of Humanities and Social Sciences
  * H. John Heinz III College of Information Systems and Public Policy
  * Mellon College of Science
  * School of Computer Science
  * Tepper School of Business
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (defunct)

|  
  
Branch campuses |

  * Australia
  * Qatar
  * Rwanda
  * Silicon Valley

  
  
Student life |

  * Traditions
  * Greek Life
  * Scotch'n'Soda
  * Miller Gallery
  * The Tartan
  * WRCT
  * University Athletic Association

  
  
Research |

  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Software Engineering Institute
  * Robotics Institute
  * Human Computer Interaction Institute
  * Computational Biology Department
  * Language Technologies Institute
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Carnegie School

  
  
People |

  * Andrew Carnegie
  * Mellon family
  * Alumni and faculty

  
  
Projects and legacies |

  * Alice
  * Andrew Project
  * BLISS
  * CMMI
  * Mach
  * 3M computer
  * Center for PostNatural History
  * Conflict Kitchen
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * _Waffle Shop: A Reality Show_
  * YinzCam

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Tepper_School_of_Business&oldid=815241967"

Categories:

  * Business schools in Pennsylvania
  * Schools and departments of Carnegie Mellon
  * Educational institutions established in 1949
  * 1949 establishments in Pennsylvania

Hidden categories:

  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * Pages using infobox university with unknown parameters
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from January 2016
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * বাংলা
  * 日本語

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 13 December 2017, at 17:15.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

