

# Terrorism

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

This is the latest accepted revision, reviewed on _24 December 2017_.

Jump to: navigation, search

"Terrorist" redirects here. For other uses, see Terrorist (disambiguation).

United Airlines Flight 175 hits the South Tower during the September 11
attacks of 2001 in New York City.

Terrorism  
---  
  
  * Definitions

  * History
  * Incidents

  
  
By ideology

|

  * Anarchist
  * Communist
  * Conservative
  * Left-wing
  * Narcotics-driven
  * Nationalist
  * Right-wing

  
  
---  
Religious  
  
  * Buddhist
  * Christian (Mormon)
  * Hindu
  * Islamic
  * Jewish
  * Sikh

  
  
Special-interest / Single-issue  
  
  * Anti-abortion

  * Environmental

  
  
Related topics  
  
  * Ethnic violence
  * Militia movement
  * Resistance movement

  
  
Structure

  * Financing
  * Fronting
  * Training camp
  * Death squad
  * Clandestine cell system
  * Leaderless resistance

  
  
  * Methods
  * Tactics

  * Agro-terrorism
  * Aircraft hijacking (list)
  * Animal-borne bomb attacks
  * Beheading
  * Bioterrorism
  * Car bombing (list)
  * Cyberterrorism
  * Dirty bomb
  * Dry run
  * Explosive
  * Hostage-taking
  * Improvised explosive device (IED)
  * Individual terror
  * Insurgency
  * Kidnapping
  * Letter bomb
  * Lone wolf
  * Mass shooting
  * Nuclear
  * Paper terrorism
  * Piracy
  * Propaganda of the deed
  * Proxy bomb
  * School shooting
  * Stabbing
  * Suicide attack (list)
  * Rockets and mortars
  * Vehicle-ramming

  
  
Terrorist groups

  * Designated terrorist groups
  * Charities accused of ties to terrorism

  
  
Adherents

|

  * Violent non-state actors

  
---  
State terrorism  
  
  * Kazakhstan
  * Soviet Union
  * Sri Lanka
  * United States
  * Uzbekistan

  
  
State-sponsored terrorism  
  
  * Iran
  * Israel
  * Pakistan
  * Qatar
  * Russia (Soviet Union)
  * Saudi Arabia
  * Syria
  * United States

  
  
Response to terrorism

  * Counter-terrorism
  * International conventions
  * Anti-terrorism legislation
  * Terrorism insurance

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
Part of a series about  
---  
War  
  
History

  * Prehistoric
  * Ancient
  * Post-classical

  * Early Modern

  * Late Modern
    * Industrial
    * Fourth-Gen

  
  
Battlespace

  * Air
  * Cyber
  * Information
  * Land
  * Sea
  * Space

  
  
Weapons

  * Armor
  * Artillery
  * Biological
  * Cavalry
  * Chemical
  * Conventional
  * Cyber
  * Electronic
  * Infantry
  * Nuclear
  * Psychological
  * Unconventional

  
  
Tactics

  * Aerial
  * Battle
  * Cavalry
  * Charge
  * Counterattack
  * Counter-insurgency
  * Cover
  * Foxhole
  * Guerrilla warfare
  * Morale
  * Siege
  * Swarming
  * Tactical objective
  * Trench warfare

  
  
Operational

  * _Blitzkrieg_
  * Deep operation
  * Maneuver warfare
  * Operational manoeuvre group

  
  
Strategy

  * Attrition
  * Counter-offensive
  * Deception
  * Defensive
  * Goal
  * Naval
  * Offensive

  
  
Grand strategy

  * Containment
  * Economic warfare
  * Limited war
  * Military science
  * Philosophy of war
  * Strategic studies
  * Total war

  
  
Organization

  * Command and control
  * Doctrine
  * Education and training
  * Engineers
  * Intelligence
  * Ranks
  * Staff
  * Technology and equipment

  
  
Logistics

  * Arms industry
  * Materiel
  * Supply chain management

  
  
Related

  * Asymmetric warfare
  * Broken-Backed War Theory
  * Court-martial
  * Cold war
  * Deterrence theory
  * Irregular warfare
  * Law of war
  * Mercenary
  * Military campaign
  * Military operation
  * Network-centric warfare
  * Operations research
  * Principles of war
  * Proxy war
  * Religious war
  * Slavery
  * Theater
  * War crimes
  * War film
  * War games
  * War novel
  * Wartime sexual violence
  * World war
  * Colonial war

  
  
Lists

  * Battles
  * Military occupations
  * Military tactics
  * Operations
  * Sieges
  * War crimes
  * Wars
  * Weapons
  * Writers

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
**Terrorism** is, in the broadest sense, the use of intentionally
indiscriminate violence as a means to create terror, or fear, to achieve a
political, religious or ideological aim.[1] It is used in this regard
primarily to refer to violence against peacetime targets or in war against
non-combatants.[2] The terms "terrorist" and "terrorism" originated during the
French Revolution of the late 18th century[3] but gained mainstream popularity
during the U.S. Presidency of Ronald Reagan (1981–89) after the 1983 Beirut
barracks bombings[4] and again after the attacks on New York City and
Washington, D.C. in September 2001[5][4][6] and on Bali in October 2002.[4]

There is no commonly accepted definition of "terrorism".[7][8] Being a charged
term, with the connotation of something "morally wrong", it is often used,
both by governments and non-state groups, to abuse or denounce opposing
groups.[9][10][4][11][8] Broad categories of political organisations have been
claimed to have been involved in terrorism to further their objectives,
including right-wing and left-wing political organisations, nationalist
groups, religious groups, revolutionaries and ruling governments.[12]
Terrorism-related legislation has been adopted in various states, regarding
"terrorism" as a crime.[13][14] There is no universal agreement as to whether
or not "terrorism", in some definition, should be regarded as a war
crime.[14][15]

According to the Global Terrorism Database by the University of Maryland,
College Park, more than 61,000 incidents of non-state terrorism, resulting in
at least 140,000 deaths, have been recorded from 2000 to 2014.[16]

## Contents

  * 1 Terminology
    * 1.1 Origin in French Revolution
    * 1.2 Definitions
    * 1.3 Pejorative use
  * 2 History
  * 3 Infographics
  * 4 Types
  * 5 Motivations of terrorists
  * 6 Democracy and domestic terrorism
  * 7 Religious terrorism
  * 8 Perpetrators
    * 8.1 Non-state groups
    * 8.2 State sponsors
    * 8.3 State terrorism
  * 9 Connection with tourism
  * 10 Funding
  * 11 Tactics
  * 12 Responses
    * 12.1 Response in the United States
    * 12.2 Terrorism research
  * 13 Mass media
  * 14 Outcome of terrorist groups
  * 15 Databases
  * 16 See also
  * 17 Notes
  * 18 References
  * 19 Further reading
  * 20 External links

## Terminology[edit]

### Origin in French Revolution[edit]

Further information: France § History, History of France § Counter-revolution
subdued (July 1793 – April 1794), and Jacobin § Girondins disbarred from
National Convention

Seal of the Jacobin Club: 'Society of the Jacobins, Friends of Freedom and
Equality'.

General Napoléon Bonaparte quelling the 5 October 1795 royalist rebellion in
Paris, in front of the Église Saint-Roch, Saint-Honoré Street, paving the way
for Directory government.

The Latin verb _terrere_ means: to frighten.[17] The English word 'terror',
just like the French _terreur_ , derives from that Latin word and means from
of old: fright, alarm, anguish, (mortal) fear, panic.

Oxford English Dictionary reportedly states that the word 'terrorist' (French:
_terroriste_ ) was invented in the year 1794, during the French Revolution.
The first meaning of the word 'terrorist' was then: adherent or supporter of
the Jacobins.[18] Apparent from the context given in an article in _the
Guardian_ , the indication 'Jacobins' in that Oxford definition bears on the
group around Maximilien Robespierre, also called 'Montagnards', that after
1794 were held responsible by some commentators for the repressive and violent
government over France between June 1793 and July 1794, a period analogously
labeled 'Reign of Terror' by commentators.[18] The given definition in Oxford
Dictionary shows, the term 'terrorist' in its first use was meant as abusive
term for someone's political or historical ideas or allegiances, not as
description of his personal actions.[18]

In December 1795, Edmund Burke used the word "Terrorists" in a description of
the new French government called 'Directory':  
_"At length, after a terrible struggle, the [Directory] Troops prevailed over
the Citizens (…) To secure them further, they have a strong corps of
irregulars, ready armed. Thousands of those Hell-hounds called **Terrorists**
, whom they had shut up in Prison on their last Revolution, as the Satellites
of Tyranny, are let loose on the people."_[19]  
Clearly, in this case, Burke used 'Terrorists' as disparaging labeling of
armed troops hired by a government he loathes.

French historian Sophie Wahnich(French) distinguishes between the
revolutionary terror of the French Revolution and the terrorists of the
September 11 attacks:

> Revolutionary terror is not terrorism. To make a moral equivalence between
the Revolution's year II and September 2001 is historical and philosophical
nonsense . . . The violence exercised on 11 September 2001 aimed neither at
equality nor liberty. Nor did the preventive war announced by the president of
the United States.[20][21]

### Definitions[edit]

See also: Definitions of terrorism

|

This article **may contain an excessive amount ofintricate detail that may
only interest a specific audience**.  Please help by spinning off or
relocating any relevant information, and removing excessive detail that may be
against Wikipedia's inclusion policy. _(March 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
|

This section **needs attention from an expert in Law**.  Please add a _reason_
or a _talk_ parameter to this template to explain the issue with the section.
WikiProject Law may be able to help recruit an expert. _(March 2017)_  
  
---|---  
  
Attack at the Bologna railway station on 2 August 1980 by the neo-fascist
group Nuclei Armati Rivoluzionari. With 85 deaths, it is the deadliest
massacre in the history of Italy as a Republic.

There are over 109 different definitions of terrorism.[22] U.S. American
political philosopher Michael Walzer in 2002 wrote: "Terrorism is the
deliberate killing of innocent people, at random, to spread fear through a
whole population and force the hand of its political leaders".[8] This meaning
can be traced back to Sergey Nechayev, who described himself as a
"terrorist".[23] Nechayev founded the Russian terrorist group "People's
Retribution" (Народная расправа) in 1869.[24]

In November 2004, a Secretary-General of the United Nations report described
terrorism as any act "intended to cause death or serious bodily harm to
civilians or non-combatants with the purpose of intimidating a population or
compelling a government or an international organization to do or abstain from
doing any act".[25] Alternatively, responding to developments in modern
warfare, Paul James and Jonathan Friedman distinguish between state terrorism
against non-combatants and state terrorism against combatants, including
'Shock and Awe' tactics:

> "Shock and Awe" as a subcategory of "rapid dominance" is the name given to
massive intervention designed to strike terror into the minds of the enemy. It
is a form of state-terrorism. The concept was however developed long before
the Second Gulf War by Harlan Ullman as chair of a forum of retired military
personnel.[26]

But defining terrorism has proven controversial. Various legal systems and
government agencies use different definitions of terrorism in their national
legislation. Moreover, the international community has been slow to formulate
a universally agreed, legally binding definition of this crime. These
difficulties arise from the fact that the term "terrorism" is politically and
emotionally charged.[27][28] In this regard, Angus Martyn, briefing the
Australian parliament, stated,

> The international community has never succeeded in developing an accepted
comprehensive definition of terrorism. During the 1970s and 1980s, the United
Nations attempts to define the term floundered mainly due to differences of
opinion between various members about the use of violence in the context of
conflicts over national liberation and self-determination.[29]

These divergences have made it impossible for the United Nations to conclude a
Comprehensive Convention on International Terrorism that incorporates a
single, all-encompassing, legally binding, criminal law definition of
terrorism.[30] The international community has adopted a series of sectoral
conventions that define and criminalize various types of terrorist activities.

Since 1994, the United Nations General Assembly has repeatedly condemned
terrorist acts using the following political description of terrorism:

> Criminal acts intended or calculated to provoke a state of terror in the
public, a group of persons or particular persons for political purposes are in
any circumstance unjustifiable, whatever the considerations of a political,
philosophical, ideological, racial, ethnic, religious or any other nature that
may be invoked to justify them.[31]

U.S. Code Title 22 Chapter 38, Section 2656f(d) defines terrorism as:
"Premeditated, politically motivated violence perpetrated against noncombatant
targets by subnational groups or clandestine agents, usually intended to
influence an audience".[32]

Bruce Hoffman, an American scholar, has noted:

> It is not only individual agencies within the same governmental apparatus
that cannot agree on a single definition of terrorism. Experts and other long-
established scholars in the field are equally incapable of reaching a
consensus. In the first edition of his magisterial survey, 'Political
Terrorism: A Research Guide,' Alex Schmid devoted more than a hundred pages to
examining more than a hundred different definitions of terrorism in an effort
to discover a broadly acceptable, reasonably comprehensive explication of the
word. Four years and a second edition later, Schmid was no closer to the goal
of his quest, conceding in the first sentence of the revised volume that the
"search for an adequate definition is still on". Walter Laqueur despaired of
defining terrorism in both editions of his monumental work on the subject,
maintaining that it is neither possible to do so nor worthwhile to make the
attempt.[33]

Hoffman believes it is possible to identify some key characteristics of
terrorism. He proposes that:

The Baghdad bus station was the scene of a triple car bombing in August 2005
that killed 43 people.

> By distinguishing terrorists from other types of criminals and terrorism
from other forms of crime, we come to appreciate that terrorism is:

>

>   * ineluctably political in aims and motives;

>   * violent – or, equally important, threatens violence;

>   * designed to have far-reaching psychological repercussions beyond the
immediate victim or target;

>   * conducted either by an organization with an identifiable chain of
command or conspiratorial cell structure (whose members wear no uniform or
identifying insignia) or by individuals or a small collection of individuals
directly influenced, motivated, or inspired by the ideological aims or example
of some existent terrorist movement and/or its leaders;

>

>

> and

>

>   * perpetrated by a subnational group or nonstate entity.[34]

>

A definition proposed by Carsten Bockstette at the George C. Marshall European
Center for Security Studies, underlines the psychological and tactical aspects
of terrorism:

> Terrorism is defined as political violence in an asymmetrical conflict that
is designed to induce terror and psychic fear (sometimes indiscriminate)
through the violent victimization and destruction of noncombatant targets
(sometimes iconic symbols). Such acts are meant to send a message from an
illicit clandestine organization. The purpose of terrorism is to exploit the
media in order to achieve maximum attainable publicity as an amplifying force
multiplier in order to influence the targeted audience(s) in order to reach
short- and midterm political goals and/or desired long-term end states.[35]

Oslo, Norway immediately after the 2011 terrorist attack in Norway perpetrated
by Anders Behring Breivik

Each act of terrorism is a "performance" devised to affect many large
audiences. Terrorists also attack national symbols,[36] to show power and to
attempt to shake the foundation of the country or society they are opposed to.
This may negatively affect a government, while increasing the prestige of the
given terrorist group and/or ideology behind a terrorist act.[37]

Terrorist acts frequently have a political purpose.[38] This is often where
the inter-relationship between terrorism and religion occurs. When a political
struggle is integrated into the framework of a religious or "cosmic"[39]
struggle, such as over the control of an ancestral homeland or holy site such
as Israel and Jerusalem, failing in the political goal (nationalism) becomes
equated with spiritual failure, which, for the highly committed, is worse than
their own death or the deaths of innocent civilians.[40]

Their suffering accomplishes the terrorists' goals of instilling fear, getting
their message out to an audience or otherwise satisfying the demands of their
often radical religious and political agendas.[41]

Some official, governmental definitions of terrorism use the criterion of the
illegitimacy or unlawfulness of the act.[42][ _better  source needed_] to
distinguish between actions authorized by a government (and thus "lawful") and
those of other actors, including individuals and small groups. For example,
carrying out a strategic bombing on an enemy city, which is designed to affect
civilian support for a cause, would not be considered terrorism if it were
authorized by a government. This criterion is inherently problematic and is
not universally accepted,[ _attribution needed_ ] because: it denies the
existence of state terrorism;[43] the same act may or may not be classed as
terrorism depending on whether its sponsorship is traced to a "legitimate"
government; "legitimacy" and "lawfulness" are subjective, depending on the
perspective of one government or another; and it diverges from the
historically accepted meaning and origin of the term.[44][45][46][47]

According to Ali Khan, the distinction lies ultimately in a political
judgment.[48]

An associated, and arguably more easily definable, but _not equivalent_ term
is violent non-state actor.[49] The semantic scope of this term includes not
only "terrorists", but while excluding some individuals or groups who have
previously been described as "terrorists", and also explicitly excludes state
terrorism.

U.S. president Barack Obama, commenting on the Boston Marathon bombings of
April 2013, declared that "[a]nytime bombs are used to target innocent
civilians, it is an act of terror".[50] Various commentators have pointed out
the distinction between "act of terror" and "terrorism", particularly when
used by the White House.[51][52] 18 U.S.C. § 2331 defines "international
terrorism" and "domestic terrorism" for purposes of Chapter 113B of the Code,
entitled "Terrorism":

"International terrorism" means activities with the following three
characteristics:

Involve violent acts or acts dangerous to human life that violate federal or
state law; Appear to be intended (i) to intimidate or coerce a civilian
population; (ii) to influence the policy of a government by intimidation or
coercion; or (iii) to affect the conduct of a government by mass destruction,
assassination, or kidnapping; and Occur primarily outside the territorial
jurisdiction of the U.S., or transcend national boundaries in terms of the
means by which they are accomplished, the persons they appear intended to
intimidate or coerce, or the locale in which their perpetrators operate or
seek asylum.

### Pejorative use[edit]

See also: Controversies about Labeling Terrorism

Having the moral charge in our vocabulary of 'something morally wrong', the
term 'terrorism' is often used to abuse or denounce opposite parties, either
governments or non-state-groups.[9][10][4][11][8]

Those labeled "terrorists" by their opponents rarely identify themselves as
such, and typically use other terms or terms specific to their situation, such
as separatist, freedom fighter, liberator, revolutionary, vigilante, militant,
paramilitary, guerrilla, rebel, patriot, or any similar-meaning word in other
languages and cultures. Jihadi, mujaheddin, and fedayeen are similar Arabic
words that have entered the English lexicon. It is common for both parties in
a conflict to describe each other as terrorists.[53]

On whether particular terrorist acts, such as killing non-combatants, can be
justified as the lesser evil in a particular circumstance, philosophers have
expressed different views: while, according to David Rodin, utilitarian
philosophers can (in theory) conceive of cases in which the evil of terrorism
is outweighed by the good that could not be achieved in a less morally costly
way, in practice the "harmful effects of undermining the convention of non-
combatant immunity is thought to outweigh the goods that may be achieved by
particular acts of terrorism".[54] Among the non-utilitarian philosophers,
Michael Walzer argued that terrorism can be morally justified in only one
specific case: when "a nation or community faces the extreme threat of
complete destruction and the only way it can preserve itself is by
intentionally targeting non-combatants, then it is morally entitled to do
so".[54][55]

In his book _Inside Terrorism_ Bruce Hoffman offered an explanation of why the
term _terrorism_ becomes distorted:

> On one point, at least, everyone agrees: _terrorism_ is a pejorative term.
It is a word with intrinsically negative connotations that is generally
applied to one's enemies and opponents, or to those with whom one disagrees
and would otherwise prefer to ignore. 'What is called terrorism,' Brian
Jenkins has written, 'thus seems to depend on one's point of view. Use of the
term implies a moral judgment; and if one party can successfully attach the
label _terrorist_ to its opponent, then it has indirectly persuaded others to
adopt its moral viewpoint.' Hence the decision to call someone or label some
organization _terrorist_ becomes almost unavoidably subjective, depending
largely on whether one sympathizes with or opposes the person/group/cause
concerned. If one identifies with the victim of the violence, for example,
then the act is terrorism. If, however, one identifies with the perpetrator,
the violent act is regarded in a more sympathetic, if not positive (or, at the
worst, an ambivalent) light; and it is not terrorism.[56][57][58]

President Reagan meeting with Afghan Mujahideen leaders in the Oval Office in
1983

The pejorative connotations of the word can be summed up in the aphorism, "One
man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter".[53] This is exemplified
when a group using irregular military methods is an ally of a state against a
mutual enemy, but later falls out with the state and starts to use those
methods against its former ally. During World War II, the Malayan People's
Anti-Japanese Army was allied with the British, but during the Malayan
Emergency, members of its successor (the Malayan Races Liberation Army), were
branded "terrorists" by the British.[59][60] More recently, Ronald Reagan and
others in the American administration frequently called the mujaheddin
"freedom fighters" during the Soviet–Afghan War[61] yet twenty years later,
when a new generation of Afghan men were fighting against what they perceive
to be a regime installed by foreign powers, their attacks were labelled
"terrorism" by George W. Bush.[62][63][64] Groups accused of terrorism
understandably prefer terms reflecting legitimate military or ideological
action.[65][66][67] Leading terrorism researcher Professor Martin Rudner,
director of the Canadian Centre of Intelligence and Security Studies at
Ottawa's Carleton University, defines "terrorist acts" as unlawful attacks for
political or other ideological goals, and said:

> There is the famous statement: 'One man's terrorist is another man's freedom
fighter.' But that is grossly misleading. It assesses the validity of the
cause when terrorism is an act. One can have a perfectly beautiful cause and
yet if one commits terrorist acts, it is terrorism regardless.[68]

Some groups, when involved in a "liberation" struggle, have been called
"terrorists" by the Western governments or media. Later, these same persons,
as leaders of the liberated nations, are called "statesmen" by similar
organizations. Two examples of this phenomenon are the Nobel Peace Prize
laureates Menachem Begin and Nelson Mandela.[69][70][71][72][73][74] WikiLeaks
editor Julian Assange has been called a "terrorist" by Sarah Palin and Joe
Biden.[75][76]

Sometimes, states that are close allies, for reasons of history, culture and
politics, can disagree over whether or not members of a certain organization
are terrorists. For instance, for many years, some branches of the United
States government refused to label members of the Provisional Irish Republican
Army (IRA) as terrorists while the IRA was using methods against one of the
United States' closest allies (the United Kingdom) that the UK branded as
terrorism. This was highlighted by the _Quinn v. Robinson_ case.[77][78]

Media outlets who wish to convey impartiality may limit their usage of
"terrorist" and "terrorism" because they are loosely defined, potentially
controversial in nature, and subjective terms.[79][80]

## History[edit]

Main article: History of terrorism

The Irish Republican Brotherhood was one of the earliest organizations to use
modern terrorist tactics. Pictured, "The Fenian Guy Fawkes" by John Tenniel
(1867).

Depending on how broadly the term is defined, the roots and practice of
terrorism can be traced at least to the 1st-century AD.[81] Sicarii Zealots,
though some dispute whether the group, a radical offshoot of the Zealots which
was active in Judaea Province at the beginning of the 1st century AD, was in
fact terrorist. According to the contemporary Jewish-Roman historian Josephus,
after the Zealotry rebellion against Roman rule in Judea, when some prominent
Jewish collaborators with Roman rule were killed,[82][83] Judas of Galilee
formed a small and more extreme offshoot of the Zealots, the Sicarii, in 6
AD.[84] Their terror was also directed against Jewish "collaborators",
including temple priests, Sadducees, Herodians, and other wealthy elites.[85]

The term "terrorism" itself was originally used to describe the actions of the
Jacobin Club during the "Reign of Terror" in the French Revolution. "Terror is
nothing other than justice, prompt, severe, inflexible", said Jacobin leader
Maximilien Robespierre. In 1795, Edmund Burke denounced the Jacobins for
letting "thousands of those hell-hounds called Terrorists ... loose on the
people" of France.

In January 1858, Italian patriot Felice Orsini threw three bombs in an attempt
to assassinate French Emperor Napoleon III.[86] Eight bystanders were killed
and 142 injured.[86] The incident played a crucial role as an inspiration for
the development of the early terrorist groups.[86]

Arguably the first organization to utilize modern terrorist techniques was the
Irish Republican Brotherhood,[87] founded in 1858 as a revolutionary Irish
nationalist group[88] that carried out attacks in England.[89] The group
initiated the Fenian dynamite campaign in 1881, one of the first modern terror
campaigns.[90] Instead of earlier forms of terrorism based on political
assassination, this campaign used modern, timed explosives with the express
aim of sowing fear in the very heart of metropolitan Britain, in order to
achieve political gains.[91]

Another early terrorist group was Narodnaya Volya, founded in Russia in 1878
as a revolutionary anarchist group inspired by Sergei Nechayev and "propaganda
by the deed" theorist Carlo Pisacane.[81][92][93] The group developed
ideas—such as targeted killing of the 'leaders of oppression'—that were to
become the hallmark of subsequent violence by small non-state groups, and they
were convinced that the developing technologies of the age—such as the
invention of dynamite, which they were the first anarchist group to make
widespread use of[94]—enabled them to strike directly and with
discrimination.[95]

Scholars of terrorism refer to four major waves of global terrorism: "the
Anarchist, the Anti-Colonial, the New Left, and the Religious. The first three
have been completed and lasted around 40 years; the fourth is now in its third
decade."[96]

## Infographics[edit]

See also: Number of terrorist incidents by country

  * Terrorist incidents, 1970–2015. A total of 157,520 incidents are plotted. **Orange** : 1970–1999, **Red** : 2000–2015

  * Top 10 Countries (2000–2014)

  * Worldwide non-state terrorist incidents 1970–2015

## Types[edit]

|

This section **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(March 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
Depending on the country, the political system, and the time in history, the
types of terrorism are varying.

source:https://www.state.gov/j/ct/rls/crt/2015/257526.htm

Number of failed, foiled or successful terrorist attacks by year and type
within the European Union. Source: Europol.[97][98][99]

Aftermath of the King David Hotel bombing by the Zionist militant group Irgun,
July 1946

A view of damage to the U.S. Embassy in the aftermath of the 1983 Beirut
bombing caused by Islamic Jihad Organization and Hezbollah

In early 1975, the Law Enforcement Assistant Administration in the United
States formed the National Advisory Committee on Criminal Justice Standards
and Goals. One of the five volumes that the committee wrote was titled
_Disorders and Terrorism_ , produced by the Task Force on Disorders and
Terrorism under the direction of H. H. A. Cooper, Director of the Task Force
staff.

The Task Force defines terrorism as "a tactic or technique by means of which a
violent act or the threat thereof is used for the prime purpose of creating
overwhelming fear for coercive purposes". It classified disorders and
terrorism into six categories:[100]

  * **Civil disorder** – A form of collective violence interfering with the peace, security, and normal functioning of the community.
  * **Political terrorism** – Violent criminal behaviour designed primarily to generate fear in the community, or substantial segment of it, for political purposes.
  * **Non-Political terrorism** – Terrorism that is not aimed at political purposes but which exhibits "conscious design to create and maintain a high degree of fear for coercive purposes, but the end is individual or collective gain rather than the achievement of a political objective".
  * **Quasi-terrorism** – The activities incidental to the commission of crimes of violence that are similar in form and method to genuine terrorism but which nevertheless lack its essential ingredient. It is not the main purpose of the quasi-terrorists to induce terror in the immediate victim as in the case of genuine terrorism, but the quasi-terrorist uses the modalities and techniques of the genuine terrorist and produces similar consequences and reaction.[101][102][103] For example, the fleeing felon who takes hostages is a quasi-terrorist, whose methods are similar to those of the genuine terrorist but whose purposes are quite different.
  * **Limited political terrorism** – Genuine political terrorism is characterized by a revolutionary approach; limited political terrorism refers to "acts of terrorism which are committed for ideological or political motives but which are not part of a concerted campaign to capture control of the state".
  * **Official or state terrorism** – "referring to nations whose rule is based upon fear and oppression that reach similar to terrorism or such proportions". It may also be referred to as **Structural Terrorism** defined broadly as terrorist acts carried out by governments in pursuit of political objectives, often as part of their foreign policy.

Other sources have defined the typology of terrorism in different ways, for
example, broadly classifying it into **domestic terrorism** and
**international terrorism** , or using categories such as vigilante terrorism
or insurgent terrorism.[104] One way the typology of terrorism may be
defined:[105][106]

  * **Political terrorism**
    * **Sub-state terrorism**
      * Social revolutionary terrorism
      * Nationalist-separatist terrorism
      * Religious extremist terrorism 
        * Religious fundamentalist Terrorism
        * New religions terrorism
      * Right-wing terrorism
      * Left-wing terrorism
    * **State-sponsored terrorism**
    * **Regime or state terrorism**
  * **Criminal terrorism**
  * **Pathological terrorism**

##  Motivations of terrorists[edit]

Attacks on 'collaborators' are used to intimidate people from cooperating with
the state in order to undermine state control. This strategy was used in
Ireland, in Kenya, in Algeria and in Cyprus during their independence
struggles.

Attacks on high-profile symbolic targets are used to incite counter-terrorism
by the state to polarize the population.[ _clarification needed_ ][ _citation
needed_ ] This strategy was used by Al-Qaeda in its attacks on the World Trade
Center and the Pentagon in the United States on September 11, 2001. These
attacks are also used to draw international attention to struggles that are
otherwise unreported, such as the Palestinian airplane hijackings in 1970 and
the South Moluccan hostage crisis in the Netherlands in 1975.

Abrahm suggests that terrorist organizations do not select terrorism for its
political effectiveness.[107] Individual terrorists tend to be motivated more
by a desire for social solidarity with other members of their organization
than by political platforms or strategic objectives, which are often murky and
undefined.[107] Additionally, Michael Mousseau shows possible relationships
between the type of economy within a country and ideology associated with
terrorism.[108] Many terrorists have a history of domestic violence.[109]

Some terrorists like Timothy McVeigh were motivated by revenge against a state
for its actions against its citizens.

According to Paul Gill, John Horgan and Paige Deckert on behalf of The
Department of security of UK, 43% of lone wolf terrorism is motivated by
religious beliefs. The same report indicates that Just less than a third
(31.9%) have pre-existing mental health disorders, while many are found to
have these problems upon arrest. At least 37% lived alone at the time of their
event planning and/or execution, a further 26.1% lived with others, and no
data were available for the remaining cases. 40.2% were unemployed at the time
of their arrest or terrorist event. Many were chronically unemployed and
consistently struggled to hold any form of employment for a significant amount
of time. 19.3% subjectively experienced being disrespected by others, while
14.3% experienced being the victim of verbal or physical assault. [110]

It is true that one of the main reasons behind terrorism is a strong religious
belief however there are other factors such as cultural, social and political.
Even though these reasons are like most around the world. The drive behind
these Chechen terrorists are quite distinct and unique from others. Many of
the Chechens considered themselves secular freedom fighters, nationalist
insurgents seeking to establish an independent secular state of Chechnya. A
distinction must be made from the beginning between national Chechen
terrorists and non-Chechen fighters who have adopted the idea from abroad. Few
Chechen fighters fought for the jihads although on the other hand most of the
non-Chechen fighters did (Janeczko, 2014 [111]

One of the major reasons why terrorists are motivated and perhaps eager to
carry out horrific acts is assurance of financial stability for their
families, that they are given when they join a terrorist organization. An
extra grant is provided for the families of suicide bombers.[112]

## Democracy and domestic terrorism[edit]

|

The **neutrality of this section is disputed**.  Relevant discussion may be
found on the talk page. Please do not remove this message until conditions to
do so are met. _(March 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
|

This section's **factual accuracy isdisputed**.  Relevant discussion may be
found on Talk:Terrorism. Please help to ensure that disputed statements are
reliably sourced. _(March 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to remove this template
message)_  
  
---|---  
  
The relationship between domestic terrorism and democracy is very complex.
Terrorism is most common in nations with intermediate political freedom, and
it is least common in the most democratic nations.[113][114][115][116]
However, one study suggests that suicide attacks may be an exception to this
general rule.[ _irrelevant citation_ ] Evidence regarding this particular
method of terrorism reveals that every modern suicide campaign has targeted a
democracy–a state with a considerable degree of political freedom.[117][
_relevant? – discuss_][ _verify_ ] The study suggests that concessions awarded
to terrorists during the 1980s and 1990s for suicide attacks increased their
frequency.[ _example needed_ ][ _dubious – discuss_][118] There is a
connection between the existence of civil liberties, democratic participation
and terrorism.[ _improper synthesis?_ ] According to Young and Dugan, these
things encourage terrorist groups to organize and generate terror.[119][ _
_non sequitur__ ]

Some examples of "terrorism" in non-democratic nations include ETA in Spain
under Francisco Franco (although the group's terrorist activities increased
sharply after Franco's death),[120] the Organization of Ukrainian Nationalists
in pre-war Poland,[121] the Shining Path in Peru under Alberto Fujimori,[122]
the Kurdistan Workers Party when Turkey was ruled by military leaders[
_citation needed_ ] and the ANC in South Africa.[123] Democracies, such as
Japan, the United Kingdom, the United States, Israel, Indonesia, India, Spain,
Germany, Italy and the Philippines, have also experienced domestic terrorism.

While a democratic nation espousing civil liberties may claim a sense of
higher moral ground than other regimes, an act of terrorism within such a
state may cause a dilemma: whether to maintain its civil liberties and thus
risk being perceived as ineffective in dealing with the problem; or
alternatively to restrict its civil liberties and thus risk delegitimizing its
claim of supporting civil liberties.[124] For this reason, homegrown terrorism
has started to be seen as a greater threat, as stated by former CIA Director
Michael Hayden.[125] This dilemma, some social theorists would conclude, may
very well play into the initial plans of the acting terrorist(s); namely, to
delegitimize the state and cause a systematic shift towards anarchy via the
accumulation of negative sentiments towards the state system.[126]

## Religious terrorism[edit]

Main article: Religious terrorism

Islamabad Marriott Hotel bombing. Some 35,000 Pakistanis have died from
terrorist attacks in recent years.[127]

Terrorist acts throughout history have been performed on religious grounds
with the goal to either spread or enforce a system of belief, viewpoint or
opinion.[128][ _dubious – discuss_][ _irrelevant citation_ ] The validity and
scope of religious terrorism is limited to an individual's view or a group's
view or interpretation of that belief system's teachings.[ _citation needed_
][ _context?_ ]

According to the Global Terrorism Index by the University of Maryland, College
Park, religious extremism has overtaken national separatism and become the
main driver of terrorist attacks around the world. Since 9/11 there has been a
five-fold increase in deaths from terrorist attacks. The majority of incidents
over the past several years can be tied to groups with a religious agenda.
Before 2000, it was nationalist separatist terrorist organisations such as the
IRA and Chechen rebels who were behind the most attacks. The number of
incidents from nationalist separatist groups has remained relatively stable in
the years since while religious extremism has grown. The prevalence of
Islamist groups in Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria and Syria is the main
driver behind these trends.[129]

Four of the terrorist groups that have been most active since 2001 are Boko
Haram, Al Qaeda, the Taliban and ISIL. These groups have been most active in
Iraq, Afghanistan, Pakistan, Nigeria and Syria. 80% of all deaths from
terrorism occurred in one of these five countries.[129]

In 2015, the Southern Poverty Law Center released a report on terrorism in the
United States. The report (titled _The Age of the Wolf_ ) found that during
that period, "more people have been killed in America by non-Islamic domestic
terrorists than jihadists."[130] The "virulent racist and anti-semitic"
ideology of the ultra-right wing Christian Identity movement is usually
accompanied by anti-government sentiments.[131] Adherents of Christian
Identity believe that whites of European descent can be traced back to the
"Lost Tribes of Israel" and many consider Jews to be the Satanic offspring of
Eve and the Serpent.[131] This group has committed hate crimes, bombings and
other acts of terrorism. Its influence ranges from the Ku Klux Klan and neo-
nazi groups to the anti-government militia and sovereign citizen
movements.[131] Christian Identity's origins can be traced back to Anglo-
Israelism. Anglo-Israelism held the view that Jews were descendants of ancient
Israelites who had never been lost. By the 1930s, the movement had been
infected with anti-Semitism, and eventually Christian Identity theology
diverged from traditional Anglo-Israelism, and developed what is known as the
"two seed" theory.[131] According to the two-seed theory, the Jewish people
are descended from Cain and the serpent (not from Shem).[131] The white
European seedline is descended from the "lost tribes" of Israel. They hold
themselves to "God's laws", not to "man's laws", and they do not feel bound to
a government that they consider run by Jews and the New World Order.[131]

Dawabsheh family home after Duma arson attack

Israel has also had problems with Jewish religious terrorism. Yigal Amir
assassinated Israeli Prime Minister Yitzhak Rabin in 1995. For Amir, killing
Rabin was an exemplary act that symbolized the fight against an illegitimate
government that was prepared to cede Jewish Holy Land to the Palestinians.
[132]

## Perpetrators[edit]

The perpetrators of acts of terrorism can be individuals, groups, or states.
According to some definitions, clandestine or semi-clandestine state actors
may also carry out terrorist acts outside the framework of a state of war.
However, the most common image of terrorism is that it is carried out by small
and secretive cells, highly motivated to serve a particular cause and many of
the most deadly operations in recent times, such as the September 11 attacks,
the London underground bombing, 2008 Mumbai attacks and the 2002 Bali bombing
were planned and carried out by a close clique, composed of close friends,
family members and other strong social networks. These groups benefited from
the free flow of information and efficient telecommunications to succeed where
others had failed.[133]

Over the years, much research has been conducted to distill a terrorist
profile to explain these individuals' actions through their psychology and
socio-economic circumstances.[134] Others, like Roderick Hindery, have sought
to discern profiles in the propaganda tactics used by terrorists. Some
security organizations designate these groups as _violent non-state actors_. [
_citation needed_ ] A 2007 study by economist Alan B. Krueger found that
terrorists were less likely to come from an impoverished background (28% vs.
33%) and more likely to have at least a high-school education (47% vs. 38%).
Another analysis found only 16% of terrorists came from impoverished families,
vs. 30% of male Palestinians, and over 60% had gone beyond high school, vs.
15% of the populace.A study into the poverty-stricken conditions and whether
or not,terrorists are more likely to come from here,show that people who grew
up in these situations tend to show aggression and frustration towards others.
This theory is largely debated for the simple fact that just because one is
frustrated,does not make them a potential terrorist.[135] [136]

To avoid detection, a terrorist will look, dress, and behave normally until
executing the assigned mission. Some claim that attempts to profile terrorists
based on personality, physical, or sociological traits are not useful.[137]
The physical and behavioral description of the terrorist could describe almost
any normal person.[138] However, the majority of terrorist attacks are carried
out by military age men, aged 16–40.[138]

### Non-state groups[edit]

There is speculation that anthrax mailed inside letters to U.S. politicians
was the work of a _lone wolf_.

Main articles: List of designated terrorist groups, Lone wolf (terrorism), and
Violent non-state actor

Groups not part of the state apparatus of in opposition to the state are most
commonly referred to as a "terrorist" in the media.

### State sponsors[edit]

Main article: State-sponsored terrorism

A state can sponsor terrorism by funding or harboring a terrorist group.
Opinions as to which acts of violence by states consist of state-sponsored
terrorism vary widely. When states provide funding for groups considered by
some to be terrorist, they rarely acknowledge them as such.[139][ _citation
needed_ ]

### State terrorism[edit]

Main article: State terrorism

> Civilization is based on a clearly defined and widely accepted yet often
unarticulated hierarchy. Violence done by those higher on the hierarchy to
those lower is nearly always invisible, that is, unnoticed. When it is
noticed, it is fully rationalized. Violence done by those lower on the
hierarchy to those higher is unthinkable, and when it does occur it is
regarded with shock, horror, and the fetishization of the victims.

>

> — Derrick Jensen[140]

Infant crying in Shanghai's South Station after the Japanese bombing, 28
August 1937.

As with "terrorism" the concept of "state terrorism" is controversial.[141]
The Chairman of the United Nations Counter-Terrorism Committee has stated that
the Committee was conscious of 12 international Conventions on the subject,
and none of them referred to State terrorism, which was not an international
legal concept. If States abused their power, they should be judged against
international conventions dealing with war crimes, international human rights
law, and international humanitarian law.[142] Former United Nations Secretary-
General Kofi Annan has said that it is "time to set aside debates on so-called
'state terrorism'. The use of force by states is already thoroughly regulated
under international law".[143] However, he also made clear that, "regardless
of the differences between governments on the question of the definition of
terrorism, what is clear and what we can all agree on is that any deliberate
attack on innocent civilians [or non-combatants], regardless of one's cause,
is unacceptable and fits into the definition of terrorism."[144]

USS Arizona (BB-39) burning during the Japanese surprise attack on Pearl
Harbor, December 7, 1941.

State terrorism has been used to refer to terrorist acts committed by
governmental agents or forces. This involves the use of state resources
employed by a state's foreign policies, such as using its military to directly
perform acts of terrorism. Professor of Political Science Michael Stohl cites
the examples that include the German bombing of London, the Japanese bombing
of Pearl Harbor, the British and American firebombing of Dresden, and the U.S.
atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki during World War II. He argues that
"the use of terror tactics is common in international relations and the state
has been and remains a more likely employer of terrorism within the
international system than insurgents." He also cites the first strike option
as an example of the "terror of coercive diplomacy" as a form of this, which
holds the world hostage with the implied threat of using nuclear weapons in
"crisis management" and he argues that the institutionalized form of terrorism
has occurred as a result of changes that took place following World War II. In
this analysis, state terrorism exhibited as a form of foreign policy was
shaped by the presence and use of weapons of mass destruction, and the
legitimizing of such violent behavior led to an increasingly accepted form of
this behavior by the state .[145][146][147]

St Paul's Cathedral after the German bombing of London, c. 1940.

Charles Stewart Parnell described William Ewart Gladstone's Irish Coercion Act
as terrorism in his "no-Rent manifesto" in 1881, during the Irish Land
War.[148] The concept is also used to describe political repressions by
governments against their own civilian populations with the purpose of
inciting fear. For example, taking and executing civilian hostages or
extrajudicial elimination campaigns are commonly considered "terror" or
terrorism, for example during the Red Terror or the Great Terror.[149] Such
actions are also often described as democide or genocide, which have been
argued to be equivalent to state terrorism.[150] Empirical studies on this
have found that democracies have little democide.[151][152] Western
democracies, including the United States, have supported state terrorism[153]
and mass killings,[154] with some examples being the Indonesian mass killings
of 1965–1966 and Operation _Condor_.[155][156][157]

##  Connection with tourism[edit]

The connection between terrorism and tourism has been widely studied since the
Luxor massacre in Egypt.[158][159] In the 1970s, the targets of terrorists
were politicians and chiefs of police while now, international tourists and
visitors are selected as the main targets of attacks. The attacks on the World
Trade Center and the Pentagon on September 11, 2001, were the symbolic
epicenter, which marked a new epoch in the use of civil transport against the
main power of the planet.[160] From this event onwards, the spaces of leisure
that characterized the pride of West, were conceived as dangerous and
frightful.[161][162]

## Funding[edit]

Main article: Terrorist financing

State sponsors have constituted a major form of funding; for example,
Palestine Liberation Organization, Democratic Front for the Liberation of
Palestine and other groups considered to be terrorist organizations, were
funded by the Soviet Union.[163][164] The Stern Gang received funding from
Italian Fascist officers in Beirut to undermine the British Mandate for
Palestine.[165] Pakistan has created and nurtured terrorist groups as policy
for achieving tactical objectives against its neighbours, especially
India.[166]

"Revolutionary tax" is another major form of funding, and essentially a
euphemism for "protection money".[163] Revolutionary taxes "play a secondary
role as one other means of intimidating the target population".[163]

Other major sources of funding include kidnapping for ransoms, smuggling
(including wildlife smuggling),[167] fraud, and robbery.[163] The Islamic
State in Iraq and the Levant has reportedly received funding "via private
donations from the Gulf states".[168]

The Financial Action Task Force is an inter-governmental body whose mandate,
since October 2001, has included combating terrorist financing.[169]

## Tactics[edit]

Main article: Tactics of terrorism

The Wall Street bombing at noon on September 16, 1920 killed thirty-eight
people and injured several hundred. The perpetrators were never caught.[170]

Terrorist attacks are often targeted to maximize fear and publicity, usually
using explosives or poison.[171] Terrorist groups usually methodically plan
attacks in advance, and may train participants, plant undercover agents, and
raise money from supporters or through organized crime. Communications occur
through modern telecommunications, or through old-fashioned methods such as
couriers. There is also concern about terrorist attacks employing weapons of
mass destruction.

Terrorism is a form of asymmetric warfare, and is more common when direct
conventional warfare will not be effective because forces vary greatly in
power.[172]

The context in which terrorist tactics are used is often a large-scale,
unresolved political conflict. The type of conflict varies widely; historical
examples include:

  * Secession of a territory to form a new sovereign state or become part of a different state
  * Dominance of territory or resources by various ethnic groups
  * Imposition of a particular form of government
  * Economic deprivation of a population
  * Opposition to a domestic government or occupying army
  * Religious fanaticism

## Responses[edit]

Sign notifying shoppers of increased surveillance due to a perceived increased
risk of terrorism

Responses to terrorism are broad in scope. They can include re-alignments of
the political spectrum and reassessments of fundamental values.

Specific types of responses include:

  * Targeted laws, criminal procedures, deportations, and enhanced police powers
  * Target hardening, such as locking doors or adding traffic barriers
  * Preemptive or reactive military action
  * Increased intelligence and surveillance activities
  * Preemptive humanitarian activities
  * More permissive interrogation and detention policies

The term "counter-terrorism" has a narrower connotation, implying that it is
directed at terrorist actors.

### Response in the United States[edit]

See also: War on Terror

X-ray backscatter technology (AIT) machine used by the TSA to screen
passengers. According to the TSA, this is what the remote TSA agent would see
on their screen.

According to a report by Dana Priest and William M. Arkin in The Washington
Post, "Some 1,271 government organizations and 1,931 private companies work on
programs related to counterterrorism, homeland security and intelligence in
about 10,000 locations across the United States."[173]

America's thinking on how to defeat radical Islamists is split along two very
different schools of thought. Republicans, typically follow what is known as
the Bush Doctrine, advocate the military model of taking the fight to the
enemy and seeking to democratize the Middle East. Democrats, by contrast,
generally propose the law enforcement model of better cooperation with nations
and more security at home.[174] In the introduction of the _U.S. Army / Marine
Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual_ , Sarah Sewall states the need for "U.S.
forces to make securing the civilian, rather than destroying the enemy, their
top priority. The civilian population is the center of gravity—the deciding
factor in the struggle.... Civilian deaths create an extended family of
enemies—new insurgent recruits or informants––and erode support of the host
nation." Sewall sums up the book's key points on how to win this battle:
"Sometimes, the more you protect your force, the less secure you may be....
Sometimes, the more force is used, the less effective it is.... The more
successful the counterinsurgency is, the less force can be used and the more
risk must be accepted.... Sometimes, doing nothing is the best reaction."[175]
This strategy, often termed "courageous restraint", has certainly led to some
success on the Middle East battlefield, yet it fails to address the central
truth: the terrorists we face are mostly homegrown.[174]

### Terrorism research[edit]

Terrorism research, also called terrorism and counter-terrorism research, is
an interdisciplinary academic field which seeks to understand the causes of
terrorism, how to prevent it as well as its impact in the broadest sense.
Terrorism research can be carried out in both military and civilian contexts,
for example by research centres such as the British Centre for the Study of
Terrorism and Political Violence, the Norwegian Centre for Violence and
Traumatic Stress Studies, and the International Centre for Counter-Terrorism
(ICCT). There are several academic journals devoted to the field.[176]

## Mass media[edit]

_La Terroriste_ , a 1910 poster depicting a female member of the Combat
Organization of the Polish Socialist Party throwing a bomb at a Russian
official's car.

Mass media exposure may be a primary goal of those carrying out terrorism, to
expose issues that would otherwise be ignored by the media. Some consider this
to be manipulation and exploitation of the media.[177]

The Internet has created a new channel for groups to spread their
messages.[178] This has created a cycle of measures and counter measures by
groups in support of and in opposition to terrorist movements. The United
Nations has created its own online counter-terrorism resource.[179]

The mass media will, on occasion, censor organizations involved in terrorism
(through self-restraint or regulation) to discourage further terrorism.
However, this may encourage organizations to perform more extreme acts of
terrorism to be shown in the mass media. Conversely James F. Pastor explains
the significant relationship between terrorism and the media, and the
underlying benefit each receives from the other.[180]

> There is always a point at which the terrorist ceases to manipulate the
media gestalt. A point at which the violence may well escalate, but beyond
which the terrorist has become symptomatic of the media gestalt itself.
Terrorism as we ordinarily understand it is innately media-related.

>

> — Novelist William Gibson[181]

Former British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher also famously spoke of the
close connection between terrorism and the media, calling publicity 'the
oxygen of terrorism'.[182]

## Outcome of terrorist groups[edit]

How terrorist groups end (n = 268): The most common ending for a terrorist
group is to convert to nonviolence via negotiations (43 percent), with most of
the rest terminated by routine policing (40 percent). Groups that were ended
by military force constituted only 7 percent.[183]

Jones and Libicki (2008) created a list of all the terrorist groups they could
find that were active between 1968 and 2006. They found 648. of those, 136
splintered and 244 were still active in 2006.[184] Of the ones that ended, 43
percent converted to nonviolent political actions, like the Irish Republican
Army in Northern Ireland. Law enforcement took out 40 percent. Ten percent
won. Only 20 groups, 7 percent, were taken out by military force.

Forty-two groups became large enough to be labeled an insurgency; 38 of those
had ended by 2006. Of those, 47 percent converted to nonviolent political
actors. Only 5 percent were taken out by law enforcement. 26 percent won. 21
percent succumbed to military force.[185] Jones and Libicki concluded that
military force may be necessary to deal with large insurgencies but are only
occasionally decisive, because the military is too often seen as a bigger
threat to civilians than the terrorists. To avoid that, the rules of
engagement must be conscious of collateral damage and work to minimize it.

Another researcher, Audrey Cronin, lists six primary ways that terrorist
groups end:[186]

  1. Capture or killing of a group's leader. (Decapitation).
  2. Entry of the group into a legitimate political process. (Negotiation).
  3. Achievement of group aims. (Success).
  4. Group implosion or loss of public support. (Failure).
  5. Defeat and elimination through brute force. (Repression).
  6. Transition from terrorism into other forms of violence. (Reorientation).

## Databases[edit]

The following terrorism databases are or were made publicly available for
research purposes, and track specific acts of terrorism:

  * Global Terrorism Database, an open-source database by the University of Maryland, College Park on terrorist events around the world from 1970 through 2015 with more than 150,000 cases.
  * MIPT Terrorism Knowledge Base
  * Worldwide Incidents Tracking System
  * Tocsearch (dynamic database)

The following public report and index provides a summary of key global trends
and patterns in terrorism around the world

  * Global Terrorism Index, produced annually by the Institute for Economics and Peace

The following publicly available resources index electronic and bibliographic
resources on the subject of terrorism

  * Human Security Gateway

The following terrorism databases are maintained in secrecy by the United
States Government for intelligence and counter-terrorism purposes:

  * Terrorist Identities Datamart Environment
  * Terrorist Screening Database

Jones and Libicki (2008) includes a table of 268 terrorist groups active
between 1968 and 2006 with their status as of 2006: still active, splintered,
converted to nonviolence, removed by law enforcement or military, or won.
(These data are not in a convenient machine-readable format but are
available.)

## See also[edit]

  * Terrorism portal

  * Archives of Terror
  * Christian terrorism
  * Crimes against humanity
  * Cyberterrorism
  * Definitions of terrorism
  * Domestic terrorism in the United States
  * Global Initiative to Combat Nuclear Terrorism
  * Global Terrorism Index
  * House of Terror
  * Islamic extremism
  * Islamic terrorism
    * List of Islamist terrorist attacks
  * Jewish religious terrorism
  * Jihadi tourism
  * Khalistan movement
  * List of causes of death by rate
  * List of designated terrorist groups
  * List of terrorist incidents
  * Lynching in the United States
  * Marxism–Leninism–Maoism
  * Narcoterrorism
  * National Counter Terrorism Security Office
  * Saffron terror
  * State terrorism
    * Iran and state-sponsored terrorism
    * Pakistan and state-sponsored terrorism
    * Police state
    * State-sponsored terrorism
    * United States and state-sponsored terrorism
  * Suicide attack
  * Terrorism in Russia
  * Terrorism and tourism in Egypt
  * Terrorism in the European Union
  * Victims of Acts of Terror Memorial
  * War on Terror
  * Violent extremism

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** Fortna, Virginia Page (20 May 2015). "Do Terrorists Win? Rebels' Use of Terrorism and Civil War Outcomes". _International Organization_. **69** (3): 519–556. doi:10.1017/S0020818315000089. Retrieved  28 September 2016. 
  2. **^** Wisnewski, J. Jeremy, ed. (18 December 2008). _Torture, Terrorism, and the Use of Violence (also available as Review Journal of Political Philosophy Volume 6, Issue Number 1)_. Cambridge Scholars Publishing. p. 175\. ISBN 978-1-4438-0291-8.  
  3. **^** Stevenson, ed. by Angus (2010). _Oxford dictionary of English_ (3rd ed.). New York, NY: Oxford University Press. ISBN 978-0-19-957112-3.   `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list (link)
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Heryanto, Ariel (7 April 2006). _State Terrorism and Political Identity in Indonesia: Fatally Belonging_. Routledge. p. 161\. ISBN 978-1-134-19569-5.  
  5. **^** Faimau, Gabriel (26 July 2013). _Socio-Cultural Construction of Recognition: The Discursive Representation of Islam and Muslims in the British Christian News Media_. Cambridge Scholars Publishing. p. 27\. ISBN 978-1-4438-5104-6.  
  6. **^** Campo, Juan Eduardo (1 January 2009). _Encyclopedia of Islam_. Infobase Publishing. p. xxii. ISBN 978-1-4381-2696-8.  
  7. **^** Halibozek, Edward P.; Jones, Andy; Kovacich, Gerald L. (2008). _The corporate security professional's handbook on terrorism_ (illustrated ed.). Elsevier (Butterworth-Heinemann). pp. 4–5. ISBN 0-7506-8257-4. Retrieved  17 December 2016. 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Robert Mackey (20 November 2009). "Can Soldiers Be Victims of Terrorism?". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  11 January 2010. Terrorism is the deliberate killing of innocent people, at random, in order to spread fear through a whole population and force the hand of its political leaders. 
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sinclair, Samuel Justin; Antonius, Daniel (7 May 2012). _The Psychology of Terrorism Fears_. Oxford University Press, USA. p. 14\. ISBN 978-0-19-538811-4.  
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ White, Jonathan R. (1 January 2016). _Terrorism and Homeland Security_. Cengage Learning. p. 3\. ISBN 978-1-305-63377-3.  
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ruthven, Malise; Nanji, Azim (24 April 2017). _Historical Atlas of Islam_. Harvard University Press. ISBN 978-0-674-01385-8.  
  12. **^** "Terrorism". Encyclopædia Britannica. p. 3. Retrieved  2015-01-07. 
  13. **^** Schwenkenbecher, Anne (13 August 2012). _Terrorism: A Philosophical Enquiry_. Palgrave Macmillan. p. 10\. ISBN 978-0-230-36398-4.  
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Illusion of War: Is Terrorism a Criminal Act or an Act of War? – Mackenzie Institute". _Mackenzie Institute_. 31 July 2014. Retrieved  2017-04-29. 
  15. **^** Eviatar, Daphne (13 June 2013). "Is 'Terrorism' a War Crime Triable by Military Commission? Who Knows?". _Huffington Post_. Retrieved  2017-04-29. 
  16. **^** "Global Terrorism Index 2015" (PDF). Institute for Economics and Peace. p. 33. 
  17. **^** Kim Campbell (27 September 2001). "When is 'terrorist' a subjective term?". _Christian Science Monitor_. Retrieved  11 January 2010. New York Times columnist William Safire wrote that the word "terrorist" has its roots in the Latin terrere, which means **"** to frighten **"**.  
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Shariatmadari, David (27 January 2015). "Is it time to stop using the word 'terrorist'?". _the Guardian_. Retrieved  23 March 2017. 
  19. **^** Edmund Burke – To The Earl Fitzwilliam (Christmas, 1795.) In: Edmund Burke, _Select Works of Edmund Burke, vol. 3 (Letters on a Regicide Peace)_ (1795). Retrieved 10 July 2017.  
This Internet version contains two, mingled, indications of page numbers: one
with single brackets like [260], one with double brackets like [ [309] ].
Burke lengthily introduces his view on 'this present Directory government',
and then writes on page [ [359] ]: "Those who arbitrarily erected the new
building out of the old materials of their own Convention, were obliged to
send for an Army to support their work. (…) At length, after a terrible
struggle, the Troops prevailed over the Citizens. (…) This power is to last as
long as the Parisians think proper. (…) [315] To secure them further, they
have a strong corps of irregulars, ready armed. Thousands of those Hell-hounds
called Terrorists, whom they had shut up in Prison on their last Revolution,
as the Satellites of Tyranny, are let loose on the people. (…)"

  20. **^** Wahnich, Sophie (2016). _In Defence of the Terror: Liberty or Death in the French Revolution_ (Reprint ed.). Verso. p.  108\. ISBN 978-1-78478-202-3. 
  21. **^** Scurr, Ruth (17 August 2012). "In Defence of the Terror: Liberty or Death in the French Revolution by Sophie Wahnich – review". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  24 July 2017. 
  22. **^** Arie W. Kruglanski and Shira Fishman Current Directions in Psychological Science Vol. 15, No. 1 (Feb., 2006), pp. 45-48
  23. **^** Crenshaw, Martha, _Terrorism in Context_ , p. 77.
  24. **^** Arnold, Kathleen R., ed. (23 September 2011). _Anti-Immigration in the United States: A Historical Encyclopedia_. **II**. ABC-CLIO, LLC. p.  461\. ISBN 978-0-313-37521-7. 
  25. **^** "UN Reform". United Nations. 21 March 2005. Archived from the original on 27 April 2007. Retrieved  2008-07-11. The second part of the report, entitled "Freedom from Fear backs the definition of terrorism–an issue so divisive agreement on it has long eluded the world community–as any action "intended to cause death or serious bodily harm to civilians or non-combatants with the purpose of intimidating a population or compelling a government or an international organization to do or abstain from doing any act" 
  26. **^** James, Paul; Friedman, Jonathan (2006). _Globalization and Violence, Vol. 3: Globalizing War and Intervention_. London: Sage Publications. p. xxx.  ; and Nairn, Tom; James, Paul (2005). _Global Matrix: Nationalism, Globalism and State-Terrorism_. London and New York: Pluto Press.  
  27. **^** Hoffman (1998), p. 32, See review in _The New York Times_ Inside Terrorism.
  28. **^** "Radicalisation, De-Radicalisation, Counter-Radicalisation: A Conceptual Discussion and Literature Review". The International Centre for Counter-Terrorism – The Hague (ICCT). 27 March 2013. Retrieved  6 September 2016. 
  29. **^** Angus Martyn, The Right of Self-Defence under International Law-the Response to the Terrorist Attacks of 11 September, Australian Law and Bills Digest Group, Parliament of Australia Web Site, 12 February 2002. Archived 16 February 2012 at the Wayback Machine.
  30. **^** Diaz-Paniagua (2008), _Negotiating terrorism: The negotiation dynamics of four UN counter-terrorism treaties, 1997–2005_, p. 47.
  31. **^** 1994 United Nations Declaration on Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism annex to UN General Assembly resolution 49/60, "Measures to Eliminate International Terrorism", of December 9, 1994, UN Doc. A/Res/60/49.
  32. **^** "22 U.S. Code § 2656f – Annual country reports on terrorism". _LII / Legal Information Institute_.  
  33. **^** Bruce Hoffman, _Inside Terrorism_ , 2 ed., Columbia University Press, 2006, p. 34.
  34. **^** Bruce Hoffman, _Inside Terrorism_ , 2 ed., Columbia University Press, 2006, p. 40.
  35. **^** Bockstette, Carsten (2008). "Jihadist Terrorist Use of Strategic Communication Management Techniques" (PDF). _George C. Marshall Center Occasional Paper Series_ (20). ISSN 1863-6039. Retrieved  2009-01-01. 
  36. **^** Rick Hampson (6 July 2009). "Statue of Liberty gets her view back". _USA Today_. Retrieved  2010-01-11. On Saturday, the statue, closed above its base since the terror attacks, will reopen to visitors – a relative few, in small groups, specially ticketed, carefully screened and escorted by a park ranger. 
  37. **^** Juergensmeyer, Mark (2000). _Terror in the Mind of God_. University of California Press. pp. 125–35.  
  38. **^** "Number of Terrorist Attacks, Fatalities". The Washington Post. 12 June 2009. Retrieved  2010-01-11. The nation's deadliest terrorist acts – attacks designed to achieve a political goal 
  39. **^** Juergensmeyer, Mark (2000). _Terror in the Mind of God_. University of California Press.  
  40. **^** Alexander Stille (31 May 2003). "Historians Trace an Unholy Alliance; Religion as the Root of Nationalist Feeling". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  2010-01-11. 'Now the context in which we see nationalism has completely changed,' he said. Faced with the threat of Islamic fundamentalism, the West is more open to looking at the role of religion in the formation of nationalism. 
  41. **^** Juergensmeyer, Mark (2000). _Terror in the Mind of God_. University of California Press. pp.  127–128. 
  42. **^** "Terrorism in the United States 1999" (PDF). Federal Bureau of Investigation. Archived from the original (PDF) on 9 July 2008. Retrieved 2008-07-11. 
  43. **^** "/Iraq accuses US of state terrorism". BBC News. 20 February 2002. Retrieved  2010-01-11. Iraq has accused the United States of state terrorism amid signs that the war of words between the two countries is heating up. 
  44. **^** "Online Etymology Dictionary". Etymonline.com. 20 October 1979. Retrieved  2009-08-10. 
  45. **^** "AskOxford Search Results – terrorist". _AskOxford_. AskOxford. Archived from the original on 29 September 2007. Retrieved  2008-07-11. 
  46. **^** "Cambridge International Dictionary of English". Dictionary.cambridge.org. Archived from the original on 26 September 2008. Retrieved  2009-08-10. 
  47. **^** "Dictionary.com". Dictionary.reference.com. 20 October 1979. Retrieved  2009-08-10. 
  48. **^** Khan, Ali (1987). "A Theory of International Terrorism" (PDF)`|format=` requires `|url=` (help). Social Science Research Network. SSRN 935347 .  Missing or empty `|url=` (help); `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  49. **^** Barak Mendelsohn (January 2005). "Sovereignty under attack: the international society meets the Al Qaeda network (abstract)". Cambridge Journals. Retrieved 2010-01-11. This article examines the complex relations between a violent non-state actor, the Al Qaeda network, and order in the international system. Al Qaeda poses a challenge to the sovereignty of specific states but it also challenges the international society as a whole. 
  50. **^** 'President Obama calls the Boston Marathon bombings 'an act of terror'' on _Daily News_ website, viewed 2013-04-17
  51. **^** Jacob Gershman. "Defining Terrorism Isn't So Easy". _WSJ_.  
  52. **^** ABC: Insurance Payout May Depend on Whether Boston Bombing Was 'Terrorist Act'. 26 April 2013.
  53. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Paul Reynolds; quoting David Hannay; Former UK ambassador (14 September 2005). "UN staggers on road to reform". BBC News. Retrieved 2010-01-11. This would end the argument that one man's terrorist is another man's freedom fighter ... 
  54. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rodin, David (2006). "Terrorism". In E. Craig (Ed.), _Routledge Encyclopedia of Philosophy_. London: Routledge.
  55. **^** Peter Steinfels (1 March 2003). "Beliefs; The just-war tradition, its last-resort criterion and the debate on an invasion of Iraq". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  2010-01-11. For those like Professor Walzer who value the just-war tradition as a disciplined way to think about the morality of war ... 
  56. **^** Bruce Hoffman (1998). "Inside Terrorism". Columbia University Press. p. 32\. ISBN 0-231-11468-0. Archived from the original on 16 April 2009. Retrieved  2010-01-11. Google cached copy CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link)
  57. **^** Bruce Hoffman (1998). "Inside Terrorism". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  2010-01-11. 
  58. **^** Raymond Bonner (1 November 1998). "Getting Attention: A scholar's historical and political survey of terrorism finds that it works". _The New York Times: Books_. Retrieved  2010-01-11. _Inside Terrorism_ falls into the category of 'must read,' at least for anyone who wants to understand how we can respond to international acts of terror.  
  59. **^** Malayan People's Anti-Japanese Army Britannica Concise.
  60. **^** Dr Chris Clark _"Malayan Emergency, 16 June 1948". Archived from the original on 8 June 2007.  _, 16 June 2003.
  61. **^** Ronald Reagan, speech to National Conservative Political Action Conference Archived 20 August 2006 at the Wayback Machine. 8 March 1985. On the Spartacus Educational web site.
  62. **^** "President Meets with Afghan Interim Authority Chairman". Georgewbush-whitehouse.archives.gov. 29 January 2002. Retrieved  2009-08-10. 
  63. **^** President Discusses Progress in War on Terrorism to National Guard White House web site 9 February 2006.
  64. **^** "An unbiased look at terrorism in Afghanistan [in 2009] reveals that many of these 'terrorists' individuals or groups were once 'freedom fighters' struggling against the Soviets during the 1980s." (Chouvy, Pierre-Arnaud (2009). _Opium: Uncovering the Politics of the Poppy_ (illustrated, reprint ed.). Harvard University Press. p.  119. ISBN 978-0-674-05134-8. )
  65. **^** Sudha Ramachandran _Death behind the wheel in Iraq_ Asian Times, 12 November 2004, "Insurgent groups that use suicide attacks therefore do not like their attacks to be described as suicide terrorism. They prefer to use terms like "martyrdom ..."
  66. **^** Alex Perry How Much to Tip the Terrorist? _Time_ , 26 September 2005. "The Tamil Tigers would dispute that tag, of course. Like other guerrillas and suicide bombers, they prefer the term "freedom fighters".
  67. **^** Terrorism: concepts, causes, and conflict resolution George Mason University Institute for Conflict Analysis and Resolution, Printed by the Defense Threat Reduction Agency, Fort Belvoir, Virginia, January 2003.
  68. **^** Quinney, Nigel; Coyne, A. Heather (2011). _Peacemaker's Toolkit Talking to Groups that Use Terrorism_ (PDF). United States Institute of Peace. ISBN 978-1-60127-072-6. Retrieved 11 December 2016. 
  69. **^** Theodore P. Seto _The Morality of Terrorism_ Includes a list in The Times published on 23 July 1946, which were described as Jewish terrorist actions, including those launched by Irgun, of which Begin was a leading member.
  70. **^** BBC News: Profiles: Menachem Begin BBC website "Under Begin's command, the underground terrorist group Irgun carried out numerous acts of violence."
  71. **^** Eqbal Ahmad _"Straight talk on terrorism"_ Monthly Review, January 2002. "including Menachem Begin, appearing in "Wanted" posters saying, "Terrorists, reward this much." The highest reward I have seen offered was 100,000 British pounds for the head of Menachem Begin". "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 5 February 2012. Retrieved  2006-09-10. CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link)
  72. **^** Lord Desai Hansard, House of Lords Archived 11 March 2007 at the Wayback Machine. 3 September 1998 : Column 72, "However, Jomo Kenyatta, Nelson Mandela and Menachem Begin—to give just three examples—were all denounced as terrorists but all proved to be successful political leaders of their countries and good friends of the United Kingdom."
  73. **^** BBC NEWS:World: Americas: UN reforms receive mixed response BBC website "Of all groups active in recent times, the ANC perhaps represents best the traditional dichotomous view of armed struggle. Once regarded by western governments as a terrorist group, it now forms the legitimate, elected government of South Africa, with Nelson Mandela one of the world's genuinely iconic figures."
  74. **^** BBC NEWS: World: Africa: Profile: Nelson Mandela BBC website "Nelson Mandela remains one of the world's most revered statesman".
  75. **^** Beckford, Martin (30 November 2010). "Hunt WikiLeaks founder like al-Qaeda and Taliban Leaders". London: The Telegraph. Retrieved 7 January 2011. 
  76. **^** MacAskill, Ewen (19 December 2010). "Julian Assange like a hi-tech terrorist". London: The Guardian. Retrieved 7 January 2011. 
  77. **^** "Quinn v. Robinson, 783 F2d. 776 (9th Cir. 1986)". _Uniset.ca_. Retrieved  23 November 2010. 
  78. **^** Zachary E. McCabe (25 August 2003). "Northern Ireland: The paramilitaries, Terrorism, and September 11th" (PDF). Queen's University Belfast School of Law. p. 17\. Archived from the original (PDF) on 1 December 2007. 
  79. **^** "Guardian and Observer style guide: T". _The Guardian_. London. 19 December 2008. Retrieved  2014-04-09. 
  80. **^** "BBC Editorial Guidelines on Language when Reporting Terrorism". BBC. Archived from the original on 30 December 2011. Retrieved  9 January 2011. 
  81. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "PM Modi's vow to avenge Uri won't remain just words: Manohar Parrikar – Times of India". _indiatimes.com_.  
  82. **^** Hoffman, Bruce. _Inside Terrorism_. New York: Columbia University Press, 1988. p. 83
  83. **^** Chaliand, Gerard. _The History of Terrorism: From Antiquity to al Qaeda_. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2007. p.56
  84. **^** Chaliand, Gerard. _The History of Terrorism: From Antiquity to al Qaeda_. Berkeley: University of California Press, 2007. p.68
  85. **^** Hoffman, Bruce. _Inside Terrorism_. New York: Columbia University Press, 1988. p. 167
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Crenshaw, Martha, _Terrorism in Context_ , p. 38.
  87. **^** "Terrorism: From the Fenians to Al Qaeda". Archived from the original on 3 December 2012. Retrieved  2012-12-17. 
  88. **^** Irish Freedom, by Richard English Publisher: Pan Books (2 November 2007), ISBN 0-330-42759-8 p179
  89. **^** Irish Freedom, by Richard English Publisher: Pan Books (2 November 2007), ISBN 0-330-42759-8 p. 180
  90. **^** Whelehan, Niall (2012). _The Dynamiters: Irish Nationalism and Political Violence in the Wider World 1867–1900_. Cambridge.  
  91. **^** "The Fenian Dynamite campaign 1881–85". Retrieved  2012-12-17. 
  92. **^** History of Terrorism article by Mark Burgess Archived 11 May 2012 at the Wayback Machine.
  93. **^** Hoffman 1998, p. 5
  94. **^** _A History of Terrorism_ , by Walter Laqueur, Transaction Publishers, 2000, ISBN 0-7658-0799-8, p. 92 [1]
  95. **^** "BBC – History – The Changing Faces of Terrorism". _Bbc.co.uk_. Retrieved  1 December 2017. 
  96. **^** "Terrorism as a Global Wave Phenomenon: Overview". _Politics.oxfordre.com_. Retrieved  1 December 2017. 
  97. **^** "TE-SAT 2011 EU Terrorism Situation and Trend Report" (PDF). Europol. 2011. Retrieved 1 December 2017. 
  98. **^** "TE-SAT 2010 Terrorism Situation and Trend Report" (PDF). Europol. 2010. Retrieved 1 December 2017. 
  99. **^** "TE-SAT 2009 Terrorism Situation and Trend Report" (PDF). Europol. 2009. Retrieved 1 December 2017. 
  100. **^** "Disorders and Terrorism" (PDF). _National Advisory Committee on Criminal Justice Standards and Goals_. 1976. pp.  3–6. 
  101. **^** "Quasi-terrorism". _Mukkulreddy.wordpress.com_. Retrieved  2016-07-13. 
  102. **^** "Types of Terrorism". Crime Museum. Retrieved  2016-07-13. 
  103. **^** "TERRORISM". Earth Dashboard. Retrieved  2016-07-13. 
  104. **^** Philip P. Purpura (2007). _Terrorism and homeland security: an introduction with applications_. Butterworth-Heinemann. pp. 16–19. ISBN 0-7506-7843-7.  
  105. **^** Hudson, Rex A. _Who Becomes a Terrorist and Why: The 1999 Government Report on Profiling Terrorists_ , Federal Research Division, The Lyons Press, 2002.
  106. **^** Barry Scheider, Jim Davis, _Avoiding the abyss: progress, shortfalls and the way ahead in combatting the WMD threat_ , Greenwood Publishing Group, 2009 p. 60.
  107. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Abrahms, Max (March 2008). "What Terrorists Really Want: Terrorist Motives and Counterterrorism Strategy" (PDF 1933 KB). _International Security_. Cambridge, MA: MIT Press. **32** (4): 86–89. doi:10.1162/isec.2008.32.4.78. ISSN 0162-2889. Retrieved  2008-11-04. 
  108. **^** Mousseau, Michael (2002). "Market Civilization and its Clash with Terror". _International Security_. **27** (3): 5–29. doi:10.1162/01622880260553615.  
  109. **^** Many terrorists' first victims are their wives – but we're not allowed to talk about that _New Statesman_
  110. **^** Gill, Paul; Horgan, John; Deckert, Paige (March 1, 2014). "Bombing Alone: Tracing the Motivations and Antecedent Behaviors of Lone-Actor Terrorists,,". _Journal of Forensic Sciences_. **59** (2): 425–435. doi:10.1111/1556-4029.12312. Retrieved  December 1, 2017 – via Wiley Online Library. 
  111. **^** Janeczko, Matthew (19 Jun 2014). "'Faced with death, even a mouse bites': Social and religious motivations behind terrorism in Chechnya": 428–456.  `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  112. **^** Arie W. Kruglanski and Shira Fishman Current Directions in Psychological Science Vol. 15, No. 1 (Feb., 2006), pp. 45-48
  113. **^** "Freedom squelches terrorist violence: Harvard Gazette Archives". Archived from the original on 19 September 2015.  
  114. **^** "Freedom squelches terrorist violence: Harvard Gazette Archives" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 December 2008. Retrieved 2008-12-28. 
  115. **^** "Poverty, Political Freedom, and the Roots of Terrorism" (PDF). 2004. Archived from the original (PDF) on 21 December 2008. Retrieved 2008-12-28. 
  116. **^** "Unemployment, Inequality and Terrorism: Another Look at the Relationship between Economics and Terrorism" (PDF). 2005. Archived from the original (PDF) on 2007-06-14. Retrieved 2008-12-28. 
  117. **^** Bruce Hoffman (June 2003). "The Logic of Suicide Terrorism". The Atlantic. Archived from the original on 1 October 2009. Retrieved 2010-01-11. The terrorists appear to be deliberately homing in on the few remaining places where Israelis thought they could socialize in peace. 
  118. **^** Pape, Robert A. "The Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism", _American Political Science Review_ , 2003. 97 (3): pp. 1–19.
  119. **^** Young, Joseph K.; Dugan, Laura. "Survival of the Fittest: Why Terrorist Groups Endure". _Perspectives on Terrorism_. **8** (2). ISSN 2334-3745. Archived from the original on 22 March 2016.  
  120. **^** "Basque Terrorist Group Marks 50th Anniversary with New Attacks". _Time_. 31 July 2009. Retrieved  2010-01-11. Europe's longest-enduring terrorist group. This week, ETA (the initials stand for Basque Homeland and Freedom in Euskera, the Basque language) 
  121. **^** Timothy Snyder. A fascist hero in democratic Kiev. NewYork Reviev of Books. 24 February 2010
  122. **^** Romero, Simon (18 March 2009). "Shining Path". The New York Times. Retrieved 2010-01-11. The Shining Path, a faction of Peruvian militants, has resurfaced in the remote corners of the Andes. The war against the group, which took nearly 70,000 lives, supposedly ended in 2000. ... In the 1980s, the rebels were infamous for atrocities like planting bombs on donkeys in crowded markets, assassinations and other terrorist tactics. 
  123. **^** "1983: Car bomb in South Africa kills 16". BBC. 20 May 2005. Retrieved  2010-01-11. The outlawed anti-apartheid group the African National Congress has been blamed for the attack ... He said the explosion was the "biggest and ugliest" terrorist incident since anti-government violence began in South Africa 20 years ago. 
  124. **^** Rick Young (16 May 2007). "PBS Frontline: 'Spying on the Home Front'". _PBS: Frontline_. Retrieved  2010-01-11. ... we and Frontline felt that it was important to look more comprehensively at the post-9/11 shift to prevention and the dilemma we all now face in balancing security and privacy. 
  125. **^** Yager, Jordy (25 July 2010). "Former intel chief: Homegrown terrorism is a devil of a problem". thehill.com. 
  126. **^** shabad, goldie and francisco jose llera ramo. "Political Violence in a Democratic State", _Terrorism in Context_. Ed. Martha Crenshaw. University Park: Pennsylvania State University, 1995. pp. 467.
  127. **^** "Pakistan: A failed state or a clever gambler?". BBC News. 7 May 2011.
  128. **^** Peter Rose (28 August 2003). "Disciples of religious terrorism share one faith". _Christian Science Monitor_. Retrieved  2010-01-11. Almost everyone Stern interviewed said they were doing God's will, defending the faithful against the lies and evil deeds of their enemies. Such testimonials, she suggests, "often mask a deeper kind of angst and a deeper kind of fear – fear of a godless universe, of chaos, of loose rules, and of loneliness". 
  129. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ George Arnett (19 November 2014). "Religious extremism main cause of terrorism, according to report". _The Guardian_. Retrieved  22 March 2017. 
  130. **^** Ryan Lenz (February 2015). Age of the Wolf (PDF) (Report). Southern Poverty Law Center. p. 4. Retrieved 22 March 2017. A large number of independent studies have agreed that since the 9/11 mass murder, more people have been killed in America by non-Islamic domestic terrorists than jihadists. 
  131. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ "[2]". Anti-Defamation League 2017.
  132. **^** Spaaij 2012, p. 68.
  133. **^** Sageman, Mark (2004). _Understanding Terror Networks_. Philadelphia, PA: U. of Pennsylvania Press. pp.  166–67. ISBN 978-0-8122-3808-2. 
  134. **^** Prof. Dr. Edwin Bakker; Jeanine de Roy van Zuijdewijn (29 February 2016). "Personal Characteristics of Lone-Actor Terrorists". Retrieved 6 September 2016. 
  135. **^** Arie W. Kruglanski and Shira Fishman Current Directions in Psychological Science Vol. 15, No. 1 (Feb., 2006), pp. 45-48
  136. **^** Steven D. Levitt; Stephen J. Dubner (2009). _Superfreakonomics: global cooling, patriotic prostitutes, and why suicide bombers should buy life insurance_. William Morrow. pp.  62, 231. ISBN 978-0-06-088957-9.  citing Alan B. Krueger, _What Makes a Terrorist_ (Princeton University Press 2007); Claude Berrebi, "Evidence About the Link Between Education, Poverty, and Terrorism among Palestinians", Princeton University Industrial Relations Section Working paper, 2003 and Krueger and Jita Maleckova, "Education, Poverty and Terrorism: Is There a Causal Connection?" _Journal of Economic Perspectives_ 17 no. 4 Fall 2003 / 63.
  137. **^** Sean Coughlan (21 August 2006). "Fear of the unknown". BBC News. Retrieved 2010-01-11. A passenger on the flight, Heath Schofield, explained the suspicions: "It was a return holiday flight, full of people in flip-flops and shorts. There were just two people in the whole crowd who looked like they didn't belong there." 
  138. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Library of Congress – Federal Research Division _The Sociology and Psychology of Terrorism_.
  139. **^** "State Sponsored Terrorism". trackingterrorism.org. Retrieved  2017-05-28. 
  140. **^** _Endgame: Resistance_ , by Derrick Jensen, Seven Stories Press, 2006, ISBN 1-58322-730-X, p. ix.
  141. **^** "Pds Sso" (PDF). Eprints.unimelb.edu.au. Archived from the original (PDF) on 12 May 2008. Retrieved 2009-08-10. 
  142. **^** "Addressing Security Council, Secretary-General Calls on Counter-Terrorism Committee To Develop Long-Term Strategy To Defeat Terror". Un.org. Retrieved  2009-08-10. 
  143. **^** Lind, Michael (2 May 2005). "The Legal Debate is Over: Terrorism is a War Crime | The New America Foundation". Newamerica.net. Retrieved 2009-08-10. 
  144. **^** "Press conference with Kofi Annan & FM Kamal Kharrazi". Un.org. 26 January 2002. Retrieved  2009-08-10. 
  145. **^** Michael Stohl (1 April 1984). "The Superpowers and International Terror". International Studies Association, Atlanta. 
  146. **^** Michael Stohl (1988). "Terrible beyond Endurance? The Foreign Policy of State Terrorism". International Studies Association, Atlanta. 
  147. **^** Michael Stohl (1984). "The State as Terrorist: The Dynamics of Governmental Violence and Repression". International Studies Association, Atlanta. p. 49. 
  148. **^** "The "No Rent" Manifesto.; Text of the Document Issued by the Land League". _The New York Times_. 2 August 2009. Retrieved  2009-08-10. 
  149. **^** Nicolas Werth, Karel Bartošek, Jean-Louis Panné, Jean-Louis Margolin, Andrzej Paczkowski, Stéphane Courtois, _TheBlack Book of Communism: Crimes, Terror, Repression_ , Harvard University Press, 1999, hardcover, 858 pages, ISBN 0-674-07608-7
  150. **^** Kisangani, E.; Nafziger, E. Wayne (2007). "The Political Economy of State Terror" (PDF). _Defence and Peace Economics_. **18** (5): 405–414. doi:10.1080/10242690701455433. Retrieved  2008-04-02. 
  151. **^** _Death by Government_ by R.J. Rummel New Brunswick, N.J.: Transaction Publishers, 1994. Online links: [3] [4] [5]
  152. **^** _No Lessons Learned from the Holocaust?_ , Barbara Harff, 2003. Archived 30 October 2007 at the Wayback Machine.
  153. **^** Blakeley, Ruth (2009). _State Terrorism and Neoliberalism: The North in the South._ Routledge. pp. 4 ISBN 0415686172
  154. **^** Valentino, Benjamin A. (2005). _Final Solutions: Mass Killing and Genocide in the 20th Century_. Cornell University Press. p. 27\. ISBN 978-0801472732.  
  155. **^** Perry, Juliet (21 July 2016). "Tribunal finds Indonesia guilty of 1965 genocide; US, UK complicit". CNN. Retrieved 5 June 2017. 
  156. **^** Mark Aarons (2007). "Justice Betrayed: Post-1945 Responses to Genocide." In David A. Blumenthal and Timothy L. H. McCormack (eds). _The Legacy of Nuremberg: Civilising Influence or Institutionalised Vengeance? (International Humanitarian Law)._ Martinus Nijhoff Publishers. ISBN 9004156917 pp. 71 & 80–81
  157. **^** McSherry, J. Patrice (2011). "Chapter 5: "Industrial repression" and Operation Condor in Latin America". In Esparza, Marcia; Henry R. Huttenbach; Daniel Feierstein. _State Violence and Genocide in Latin America: The Cold War Years (Critical Terrorism Studies)_. Routledge. p. 107. ISBN 0-415-66457-8.  
  158. **^** Sönmez, S. F.; Apostolopoulos, Y.; Tarlow, P. (1999). "Tourism in crisis: Managing the effects of terrorism" (PDF). _Journal of Travel Research_. **38** (1): 13–18. doi:10.1177/004728759903800104.  
  159. **^** Tarlow, P. E. (2006). "Tourism and Terrorism". In Wilks J, Pendergast D & Leggat P. (Eds) Tourism in turbulent times: Towards safe experiences for visitors (Advances in Tourism Research), Elsevier, Oxford, pp. 80–82.
  160. **^** Bianchi, R (2006). "Tourism and the globalisation of fear: Analysing the politics of risk and (in) security in global travel". _Tourism and Hospitality Research_. **7** (1): 64–74. doi:10.1057/palgrave.thr.6050028.  
  161. **^** Floyd, M. et al. (2003). "The Effects of Risk Perception on Intention to Travel in the Aftermath of September 11, 2001". In _Safety and Security in Tourism: relationships, Management and Marketing_ , (Eds) Hall, M. Timothy, D. y Duval, T.. New York: Haworth Hospitality Press
  162. **^** Brun, W.; Wolff, K.; Larsen, S. (2011). "Tourist worries after terrorist attacks: Report from a field experiment". _Scandinavian Journal of Hospitality and Tourism_. **11** (3): 387–94. doi:10.1080/15022250.2011.593365.  
  163. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Detection of Terrorist Financing Archived August 14, 2009, at the Wayback Machine., U.S. National Credit Union Administration (NCUA), 2002.
  164. **^** Jeremy Lott (6 October 2004). "Tripped Up". Reason Magazine. Retrieved 2010-01-11. and before the Soviet Union fell, terrorist organizations were funding themselves through subsidies from Communist governments 
  165. **^** "Aims and activities of the Stern Group in Palestine". _Research and Analysis Branch_. Washington: National Archives. **2717** (R  & N). 1 December 1944. 
  166. **^** Nelson, Dean (8 July 2009). "Pakistani president Asif Zardari admits creating terrorist groups". _The Daily Telegraph_.  
  167. **^** Gerben Jan Gerbrandy claiming that terrorist networks hunt wildlife for funding themselves Archived 22 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine.
  168. **^** "Syria's top Islamist and jihadist groups". France 24.
  169. **^** "Terrorist Financing". The Financial Action Task Force. Retrieved  7 January 2011. 
  170. **^** Gage, Beverly (2009). _The Day Wall Street Exploded: A Story of America in its First Age of Terror_. New York: Oxford University Press. p. 1\. ISBN 978-0-19-975928-6.  
  171. **^** Suicide bombings are the most effective terrorist act in this regard. See the following works:
    * Hoffman, Bruce (June 2003). "The Logic of Suicide Terrorism". _Atlantic Monthly_. **291** (5). pp.  40–47. 
    * Pape, Robert A. (2003). "The Strategic Logic of Suicide Terrorism" (reprint). _American Political Science Review_. **97** (3): 343–61. doi:10.1017/s000305540300073x.  
    * Ricolfi, Luca (2005). "Palestinians 1981–2003". In Gambetta, Diego. _Making Sense of Suicide Missions_ (1st ed.). Oxford, UK: Oxford University Press. pp. 76–130. ISBN 978-0-19-927699-8.  
Cited in Richardson, Louise (2006). _What Terrorists Want: Understanding the
Terrorist Threat_. London, UK: John Murray. p. 33\. ISBN 0-7195-6306-2.

  172. **^** "Hackers warn high street chains". BBC News. 25 April 2008. Retrieved  2010-01-11. That's the beauty of asymmetric warfare. You don't need a lot of money, or an army of people. 
  173. **^** Priest, Dana; Arkin, William (19 July 2010). "A hidden world, growing beyond control". _The Washington Post_.  
  174. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ankony, Robert C., "A New Strategy for America's War on Terrorism", _Patrolling_ magazine, 75th Ranger Regiment Association, Winter 2011, 56–57.
  175. **^** Sewall, Sarah, introduction to _The U.S. Army / Marine Corps Counterinsurgency Field Manual_ , Chicago: University of Chicago Press, (2007).
  176. **^** Tinnes, J (2013). "100 Core and Periphery Journals for Terrorism Research". _Perspectives on Terrorism_. **7** (2).  
  177. **^** The Media and Terrorism: A Reassessment Paul Wilkinson. _Terrorism and Political Violence_ , Vol. 9, No. 2 (Summer 1997), pp. 51–64 Published by Frank Cass, London.
  178. **^** Dr. Bibi van Ginkel (31 March 2015). "Responding to Cyber Jihad: Towards an Effective Counter Narrative". The International Centre for Counter-Terrorism – The Hague (ICCT). Retrieved 7 September 2016. 
  179. **^** "Security Council Counter-Terrorism Committee". Retrieved  2009-06-17. 
  180. **^** Pastor, James F. (2009). _Terrorism & Public Safety Policing: Implications of the Obama Presidency_. New York, NY: Taylor & Francis. ISBN 978-1-4398-1580-9. 
  181. **^** William Gibson's blog, October 31, 2004. Retrieved April 26, 2007.
  182. **^** "Speech to American Bar Association | Margaret Thatcher Foundation". _www.margaretthatcher.org_. Retrieved  2015-10-05. 
  183. **^** The researchers found 648 terrorist groups active between 1968 and 2006. Of those, 136 splintered and 244 were still active in 2006 (Jones and Libicki, 2008, p. 19)
  184. **^** Jones and Libicki (2008, p. 19)
  185. **^** Jones and Libicki (2008, p. 101, Table 5.4)
  186. **^** Cronin, Audrey Kurth (2009). _How Terrorism Ends: Understanding the Decline and Demise of Terrorist Campaigns_. Princeton U. Pr. ISBN 978-0-691-13948-7.  

## References[edit]

  * Spaaij, Ramon (2012). _Understanding Lone Wolf Terrorism: Global Patterns, Motivations and Prevention_.  
  * Perspectives on Terrorism's Bibliography: Root Causes of Terrorism. 2017.

## Further reading[edit]

  * Bakker, Edwin. _Forecasting the Unpredictable: A Review of Forecasts on Terrorism 2000–2012_ (International Centre for Counter-Terrorism – The Hague, 2014)
  * Burleigh, Michael. _Blood and rage: a cultural history of terrorism_. Harper, 2009.
  * Chaliand, Gérard and Arnaud Blin, eds. _The history of terrorism: from antiquity to al Qaeda_. University of California Press, 2007.
  * Coates, Susan W., Rosenthal, Jane, and Schechter, Daniel S. September 11: Trauma and Human Bonds. New York: Taylor and Francis, Inc., 2003.
  * Janos Besenyo: Low-cost attacks, unnoticable plots? Overview on the economical character of current terrorism, Strategic Impact (ROMANIA) (ISSN: 1841-5784) (eISSN: 1824-9904) 62/2017: (Issue No. 1) pp. 83-100.
  * Crenshaw, Martha, ed. _Terrorism in context_. Pennsylvania State University Press, 1995.
  * Jones, Seth G.; Libicki, Martin C. (2008), _How Terrorist Groups End: Lessons for Countering al Qa’ida_ (PDF), RAND Corporation, ISBN 978-0-8330-4465-5, retrieved 2015-11-29 
  * Land, Isaac, ed., _Enemies of humanity  : the nineteenth-century war on terrorism_. Palgrave Macmillan, 2008.
  * Lee, Newton. _Counterterrorism and Cybersecurity: Total Information Awareness (2nd Edition)_. New York: Springer, 2015. ISBN 978-3-319-17243-9
  * Lutz, James and Brenda Lutz. Terrorism : origins and evolution. Palgrave Macmillan, 2005
  * Miller, Martin A. _The foundations of modern terrorism  : state, society and the dynamics of political violence_. Cambridge University Press, 2013.
  * Nairn, Tom; James, Paul (2005). _Global Matrix: Nationalism, Globalism and State-Terrorism_. London and New York: Pluto Press.  
  * Neria, Yuval, Gross, Raz, Marshall, Randall D., and Susser, Ezra. September 11, 2001: Treatment, Research and Public Mental Health in the Wake of a Terrorist Attack. New York: Cambridge University Press, 2006.
  * Stern, Jessica. _The Ultimate Terrorists_. First Harvard University Press Pbk. ed. Cambridge, Mass.: Harvard University Press, 2000, cop. 1995. 214 p. ISBN 0-674-00394-2
  * Tausch, Arno, Estimates on the Global Threat of Islamic State Terrorism in the Face of the 2015 Paris and Copenhagen Attacks (December 11, 2015). Middle East Review of International Affairs, Rubin Center, Research in International Affairs, Idc Herzliya, Israel, Vol. 19, No. 1 (Spring 2015). Available at SSRN: https://ssrn.com/abstract=2702356
  * _Terrorism, Law& Democracy: 10 years after 9/11 [ _permanent dead link_ ]_, Canadian Institute for the Administration of Justice. ISBN 978-2-9809728-7-4.
  * Jones, Sidney. _Terrorism: myths and facts_. Jakarta: International Crisis Group, 2013.

##  External links[edit]

| Wikiquote has quotations related to: _**Terrorism**_  
---|---  
|  Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Terrorism**_.  
---|---  
Library resources about  
**Terrorism**

* * *  
  
---  
  
  * Online books
  * Resources in your library

  
  
  * United Nations: Conventions on Terrorism
  * United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime: "Conventions against terrorism". Archived from the original on 5 August 2007. 
  * UNODC – United Nations Office on Drugs and Crime – Terrorism Prevention
  * Terrorism and international humanitarian law, International Committee of the Red Cross

  * v
  * t
  * e

War on Terror  
  
---  
  
  * War in Afghanistan
  * Iraq War
  * War in North-West Pakistan
  * Symbolism of terrorism

  
  
Participants |

| Operational |

  * ISAF
  * Operation Enduring Freedom participants
  * Afghanistan
  * Northern Alliance
  * Iraq (Iraqi Armed Forces)
  * NATO
  * Pakistan
  * United Kingdom
  * United States
  * European Union
  * Philippines
  * Ethiopia

  
  
---|---  
Targets |

  * al-Qaeda
  * Osama bin Laden
  * al-Qaeda in the Arabian Peninsula
  * Abu Sayyaf
  * Anwar al-Awlaki
  * Al-Shabaab
  * Boko Haram
  * Harkat-ul-Jihad al-Islami
  * Hizbul Mujahideen
  * Islamic Courts Union
  * Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant
  * Jaish-e-Mohammed
  * Jemaah Islamiyah
  * Lashkar-e-Taiba
  * Taliban
  * Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan

  
  
Conflicts |

| Operation  
_Enduring Freedom_ |

  * War in Afghanistan
  * OEF – Philippines
  * Georgia Train and Equip Program
  * Georgia Sustainment and Stability
  * OEF – Horn of Africa
  * OEF – Trans Sahara
  * Drone strikes in Pakistan

  
  
---|---  
Other |

  * Operation Active Endeavour
  * Insurgency in the Maghreb (2002–present)
  * Insurgency in the North Caucasus
  * Moro conflict in the Philippines
  * Iraq War
  * Iraqi insurgency
  * Operation Linda Nchi
  * Terrorism in Saudi Arabia
  * War in North-West Pakistan
  * War in Somalia (2006–09)
  * 2007 Lebanon conflict
  * al-Qaeda insurgency in Yemen
  * Korean conflict

  
  
See also |

  * Abu Ghraib torture and prisoner abuse
  * Axis of evil
  * Black sites
  * Bush Doctrine
  * Clash of Civilizations
  * Cold War
  * Combatant Status Review Tribunal
  * Criticism of the War on Terror
  * Death of Osama bin Laden
  * Enhanced interrogation techniques
  * Torture Memos
  * Extrajudicial prisoners
  * Extraordinary rendition
  * Guantanamo Bay detention camp
  * Iranian Revolution
  * Islamic terrorism
  * Islamism
  * Military Commissions Act of 2006
  * North Korea and weapons of mass destruction
  * Terrorist Surveillance Program
  * Operation _Noble Eagle_
  * Operation _Eagle Assist_
  * Pakistan's role
  * Patriot Act
  * President's Surveillance Program
  * Protect America Act of 2007
  * September 11 attacks
  * State Sponsors of Terrorism
  * Targeted killing
  * _Targeted Killing in International Law_
  * _Targeted Killings: Law and Morality in an Asymmetrical World_
  * Unitary executive theory
  * Unlawful combatant
  * Withdrawal of U.S. troops from Afghanistan
  * CAGE

  
  
  * **Terrorism portal**
  * **War portal**

  
  
Authority control |

  * GND: 4059534-1
  * BNF: cb13340858f (data)
  * HDS: 17353
  * NDL: 00572904

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Terrorism&oldid=816889844"

Categories:

  * Terrorism
  * Fear
  * Abuse
  * War on Terror
  * Organized crime
  * Violent crime
  * Warfare by type
  * Words coined in the 1790s

Hidden categories:

  * Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL
  * CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Pages using citations with format and no URL
  * Pages using web citations with no URL
  * CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown
  * Wikipedia pending changes protected pages (level 1)
  * Use mdy dates from September 2017
  * Wikipedia articles needing style editing from March 2017
  * All articles needing style editing
  * Articles needing expert attention with no reason or talk parameter
  * Articles needing expert attention from March 2017
  * All articles needing expert attention
  * Law articles needing expert attention
  * All articles lacking reliable references
  * Articles lacking reliable references from March 2010
  * All Wikipedia articles needing words, phrases or quotes attributed
  * Wikipedia articles needing words, phrases or quotes attributed from March 2010
  * Articles needing additional references from March 2017
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from February 2017
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from February 2017
  * NPOV disputes from March 2017
  * All NPOV disputes
  * Accuracy disputes from March 2017
  * All accuracy disputes
  * Articles lacking reliable references from March 2017
  * Wikipedia articles that may have off-topic sections
  * All pages needing factual verification
  * Wikipedia articles needing factual verification from March 2017
  * Articles with disputed statements from March 2017
  * Articles that may contain original research from March 2017
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from March 2017
  * Articles with unsourced statements from March 2017
  * Wikipedia articles needing context from March 2017
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017
  * Articles with unsourced statements from October 2016
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from December 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons
  * Wikiquote

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * Alemannisch
  * العربية
  * Aragonés
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Башҡортса
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Brezhoneg
  * Буряад
  * Català
  * Cebuano
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Fiji Hindi
  * Føroyskt
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * Galego
  * ગુજરાતી
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Ido
  * Ilokano
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Interlingua
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * Къарачай-малкъар
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kinyarwanda
  * Kiswahili
  * Kurdî
  * Ladino
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Limburgs
  * La .lojban.
  * Lumbaart
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * Malagasy
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * მარგალური
  * مازِرونی
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * Nedersaksies
  * नेपाल भाषा
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Occitan
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * Piemontèis
  * Plattdüütsch
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русиньскый
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Slovenščina
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Тоҷикӣ
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Walon
  * Winaray
  * ייִדיש
  * 粵語
  * Zazaki
  * Žemaitėška
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 24 December 2017, at 12:14.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

