

# _The Hollywood Reporter_

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

_The Hollywood Reporter_

Dwayne Johnson on the June 2014 cover  
  
---  
Editorial Director | Matthew Belloni  
Categories | Entertainment  
Frequency | Weekly  
Publisher | Lynne Segall  
First issue | September 3, 1930; 87 years ago (1930-09-03)  
Company | Eldridge Industries  
Country | United States  
Based in | Los Angeles, California, U.S.  
Language | English  
Website | hollywoodreporter.com  
ISSN | 0018-3660  
  
_**The Hollywood Reporter**_ ( _ **THR**_ ) is a multi-platform American
digital and print magazine founded in 1930 and focusing on the Hollywood film
industry, television, and entertainment industries, as well as Hollywood's
intersection with fashion, finance, law, technology, lifestyle, and politics.

Headquartered in Los Angeles, _THR_ is part of the Hollywood Reporter-
Billboard Media Group, a group of properties that includes _Billboard_ and
SpinMedia. It is owned by Eldridge Industries, a holding company owned by Todd
Boehly, an executive of its previous owner, Guggenheim Partners.[1]

Under Janice Min, a faltering _THR_ was relaunched in 2010 as a weekly large-
format print magazine with a revamped, continuously updated website, as well
as mobile and tablet editions.

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Early years
    * 1.2 Hollywood blacklist
  * 2 Ownership changes
  * 3 Editors and publishers
  * 4 Editions
    * 4.1 Print
    * 4.2 On the web
  * 5 Editors and reporters
  * 6 2010 relaunch
  * 7 Deadline.com lawsuit
  * 8 Current status and legacy
    * 8.1 Awards season
    * 8.2 Competition with _Variety_
  * 9 See also
  * 10 References
  * 11 External links

## History[edit]

### Early years[edit]

_THR_ was founded in 1930 by William R. "Billy" Wilkerson (1890–1962) as
Hollywood's first daily entertainment trade newspaper.[2] The first edition
appeared on September 3, 1930 and featured Wilkerson's front-page "Tradeviews"
column, which became influential. The newspaper appeared Monday to Saturday
for the first 10 years, except for a brief period, then Monday to Friday from
1940. Wilkerson ran the _THR_ until his death in September 1962, although his
final column appeared 18 months prior.[3]

###  Hollywood blacklist[edit]

Further information: Hollywood blacklist

From the late 1930s, Wilkerson used _THR_ to push the view that the industry
was a communist stronghold. In particular, he opposed the screenplay writers'
trade union, the Screen Writers Guild, which he called the "Red
Beachhead."[4][5] In 1946 the Guild considered creating an American Authors'
Authority to hold copyright for writers, instead of ownership passing to the
studios. Wilkerson devoted his "Tradeviews" column to the issue on July 29,
1946, headlined "A Vote for Joe Stalin." He went to confession before
publishing it, knowing the damage it would cause, but was apparently
encouraged by the priest to go ahead with it.[4][6]

The column contained the first industry names, including Dalton Trumbo and
Howard Koch, on what became the Hollywood blacklist, known as "Billy's list."
Eight of the 11 people Wilkerson named were among the "Hollywood Ten" who were
blacklisted after hearings in 1947 by the House Un-American Activities
Committee.[4][7] When Wilkerson died, his _THR_ obituary said that he had
"named names, pseudonyms and card numbers and was widely credited with being
chiefly responsible for preventing communists from becoming entrenched in
Hollywood production."[4]

In 1997, _THR_ reporter David Robb wrote a story about the newspaper's
involvement, but the editor, Robert J. Dowling, declined to run it. For the
blacklist's 65th anniversary in 2012, the _THR_ published a lengthy
investigative piece about Wilkerson's role, by reporters Gary Baum and Daniel
Miller.[4] The same edition carried an apology from Wilkerson's son W. R.
Wilkerson III. He wrote that his father had been motivated by revenge for his
thwarted ambition to own a studio.[8]

##  Ownership changes[edit]

Tichi Wilkerson Kassel (left) with Sharon Stone in 2002

Wilkerson's wife, Tichi Wilkerson Kassel (1926–2004), took over as publisher
and editor-in-chief when her husband died. She sold the paper on April 11,
1988, to Affiliated Publications, parent company of Billboard Publications,
for $26.7 million.[9] Robert J. Dowling became _THR_ president in 1988 and
editor-in-chief and publisher in 1991.[3]

Dowling hired Alex Ben Block as editor in 1990, and editorial quality of both
news and specials steadily improved. Block and Teri Ritzer dampened much of
the rah-rah coverage and cronyism that had infected the paper under
Wilkerson.[ _citation needed_ ] After Block left, former _Variety_ film
editor, Anita Busch, was became editor between 1999 and 2001. Busch was
credited with making the paper competitive with _Variety_. Tony Uphoff assumed
the publisher position in November 2005. In March 2006, a private equity
consortium led by Blackstone and KKR, both with ties to the conservative
movement in the United States, acquired _The Reporter_ along with the other
assets of Verenigde Nederlandse Uitgeverijen (VNU) which purchased Affiliated
Publications in 1994.[10] It joined those publications with _AdWeek_ and A.C.
Nielsen to form The Nielsen Company.[11]

John Kilcullen replaced Uphoff in October 2006, as publisher of
_Billboard_.[12][13][14] Kilcullen was a defendant in Billboard's infamous
"dildo" lawsuit, in which he was accused of race discrimination and sexual
harassment.[10] VNU settled the suit on the courthouse steps.[15] Kilcullen
"exited" Nielsen in February 2008 "to pursue his passion as an
entrepreneur."[16] Matthew King, vice president for content and audience,
editorial director Howard Burns, and executive editor Peter Pryor left the
paper in a wave of layoffs in December 2006; editor Cynthia Littleton, widely
respected throughout the industry, reported directly to Kilcullen. _The
Reporter_ absorbed another blow when Littleton left her position for an
editorial job at _Variety_ in March 2007. Web editor Glenn Abel also left
after 16 years with the paper.[17]

In December 2009, Prometheus Global Media, a newly formed company formed by
Pluribus Capital Management and Guggenheim Partners and chaired by Jimmy
Finkelstein, CEO of News Communications, parent of political journal _The
Hill_ , acquired _The Hollywood Reporter_ from Nielsen Business Media. It
pledged to invest in the brand and grow the company. Richard Beckman, formerly
of Condé Nast, was appointed the new company's CEO. Since January 2014, _The
Hollywood Reporter_ has been led by co-presidents Janice Min and John
Amato.[18][19]

Guggenheim Partners announced on December 17, 2015 that it would sell the
Prometheus media properties to its executive Todd Boehly.[20][21][22] The
company was sold to Eldridge Industries in February 2017.[23][24]

##  Editors and publishers[edit]

Janice Min, _THR_ editor since 2010

_THR'_ s editors have included Janice Min (2010–2017), Elizabeth Guider
(2007–2010), Cynthia Littleton (2005–2007), Howard Burns (2001–2006), Anita
Busch (1999–2001), and Alex Ben Block (1990–1999).

In April 2007, industry veteran Eric Mika was named to the newly created role
of Senior Vice President, Publishing Director of _The Reporter_. Having
previously served as Senior Vice President and Managing Director of Nielsen
Business Media's Film and Performing Arts Group and, before that, as Vice
President and Managing Director for _Variety_ , Mika assumed responsibility
for the general management of sales, marketing and editorial for _The
Hollywood Reporter_ , as well as the brand's ancillary products, events,
licensing business and partnerships.[25]

In June 2007, Rose Einstein, former Vice President, Advertising Sales for
Netflix and 25-year veteran of Reed Business Media, was named to the newly
created role of Vice President, Associate Publisher to oversee all sales and
business development for _The Reporter_. She left that position in June
2009.[26] Mika left THR in early 2010.

In July 2007, _THR_ named Elizabeth Guider as its new editor. An 18-year
veteran of _Variety_ , where she served as Executive Editor, Guider assumed
responsibility for the editorial vision and strategic direction of _The
Hollywood Reporter_ 's daily and weekly editions, digital content offerings
and executive conferences. After nearly running the publication into the
ground, Guider left _The Hollywood Reporter_ in early 2010.[27]

In April 2010, Lori Burgess was named as publisher. Burgess had been publisher
of _OK!_ magazine since October 2008. Michaela Apruzzese was named associate
publisher, entertainment in May 2010.[28] Apruzzese previously served as the
director of movie advertising for Los Angeles Times Media Group.

In May 2010, Janice Min was named Editorial Director. In January 2014, she was
promoted to President/Chief Creative Officer with additional oversight of
THR's sister brand, _Billboard_.[29] Lynne Segall, former vice president and
associate publisher, was named publisher and senior vice president in June
2011.[30]

In February 2017, Min announced she was stepping down from her role as
President/Chief Creative Officer overseeing _The Hollywood Reporter_ and
_Billboard_ to take on a new role at parent company. Simultaneously, it was
announced that longtime executive editor Matthew Belloni would take over as
Editorial Director.[31]

##  Editions[edit]

### Print[edit]

The weekly print edition of _The Hollywood Reporter_ includes profiles,
original photography and interviews with entertainment figures; articles about
major upcoming releases and product launches; film reviews and film festival
previews; coverage of the latest industry deals, TV ratings, box-office
figures and analysis of global entertainment business trends and indicators;
photos essays and reports from premieres and other red-carpet events; and the
latest on Hollywood fashion and lifestyle. [ _citation needed_ ]

### On the web[edit]

The _Reporter_ published a primitive "satellite" digital edition in the late
1980s. It became the first daily entertainment trade paper to start a website
in 1995.[32] Initially, the site offered free news briefs with complete
coverage firewalled as a premium paid service. In later years, the website
became mostly free as it became more reliant on ad sales and less on
subscribers. The website had already gone through a redesign by the time
competitor _Daily Variety_ took to the web. In 2002, the _Reporter_ 's website
won the Jesse H. Neal Award for business journalism. In November 2013, _The
Hollywood Reporter_ launched the style site Pret-a-Reporter.[33]

THR.com, _The Hollywood Reporter_ 's website, re-launched in 2010, offers
breaking entertainment news, reviews and blogs; original video content (and
film and TV clips) and photo galleries; plus in-depth movie, television,
music, awards, style, technology and business coverage. As of August 2013,
Comscore measured 12 million unique visitors per month to the site.[34]

## Editors and reporters[edit]

_The Hollywood Reporter_ has a staff of roughly 150. In addition to hiring
Eric Mika, Rose Eintstein and Elizabeth Guider, the _Reporter_ hired the
following staff in 2007:

  * Todd Cunningham, former assistant managing editor of the _LA Business Journal_ , as National Editor for _The Hollywood Reporter_ : Premier Edition
  * Steven Zeitchik as Senior Writer, based in New York, where he provide news analysis and features for the Premiere Edition
  * Melissa Grego, former managing editor of _TV Week_ , as Editor of HollywoodReporter.com
  * Jonathan Landreth as the new Asian bureau chief, in addition to 13 new writers across Asia

However, staffing levels began to drop again in 2008. In April, Nielsen
Business Media eliminated between 40 and 50 editorial staff positions at _The
Hollywood Reporter_ and its sister publications: _Adweek_ , _Brandweek_ ,
_Editor & Publisher_ and _Mediaweek._[35] In December, another 12 editorial
positions were cut at the trade paper.[36] In addition, 2008 saw substantial
turnover in the online department: THR.com Editor Melissa Grego left her
position in July to become executive editor of _Broadcasting& Cable_ ,[37] and
Managing Editor Scott McKim left to become a new media manager at Knox
College. With the entertainment industry as a whole shrinking, "Hollywood
studios have cut more than $20 million from the Motion Picture Association of
America budget this year. The resulting staff and program reductions are
expected to permanently shrink the scope and size of the six-studio trade and
advocacy group."[38]

Staffing at _THR_ in 2008 saw even further cutbacks with "names from today's
tragic bloodletting of _The Hollywood Reporter'_ s staff" adding up quickly in
the hard economic times at the end of 2008.[39] "The trade has not only been
thin, but only publishing digital version 19 days this holiday season. Film
writers Leslie Simmons, Carolyn Giardina, Gregg Goldstein, plus lead TV critic
Barry Garron and TV reporter Kimberly Nordyke, also special issues editor
Randee Dawn Cohen out of New York and managing editor Harley Lond and
international department editor Hy Hollinger, plus Dan Evans, Lesley Goldberg,
Michelle Belaski, James Gonzalez were among those chopped from the
masthead."[39]

When Janice Min and Lori Burgess came on board in 2010, the editorial and
sales staff increased nearly 50%, respectively. Min hired various recognized
journalists in the entertainment industry, most notably _Variety_ film critic
Todd McCarthy after his firing from _Variety_ in March 2010.

##  2010 relaunch[edit]

The 2010 relaunch of _The Hollywood Reporter_ under then-CEO Richard
Beckman[40] was closely chronicled by the national media. After purchasing THR
from Guggenheim Partners and Pluribus Capital in 2010, Beckman recruited Min,
the former editor-in-chief of Us Weekly, to "eviscerate" the existing daily
trade paper and reinvent it as a glossy, large-format weekly magazine.[41]

_The Reporter_ relaunched with a weekly print edition and a revamped website
that enabled it to break news. Eight months after its initial report, _The New
York Times_ took note of the many scoops _THR_ had generated, adding that the
new glossy format seemed to be succeeding with its "rarefied demographic".
"They managed to change the subject by going weekly… The large photos, lush
paper stock and great design are a kind of narcotic here."[42]

By February 2013, the _Times_ returned to _THR_ , filing a report on a party
for Academy Award nominees the magazine had hosted at the Los Angeles
restaurant Spago. Noting the crowd of top celebrities in attendance, the
_Times_ alluded to the fact that many Hollywood insiders were now referring to
_THR_ as "the new _Vanity Fair_ ". Ad sales since Min's hiring were up more
than 50%, while traffic to the magazine's website had grown by 800%.[43]

## Deadline.com lawsuit[edit]

In 2011, Deadline.com, a property of Penske Media Corporation, sued _The
Hollywood Reporter_ for more than $5 million, alleging copyright infringement.
In 2013, _THR_ 's parent company settled the suit. According to _The Wall
Street Journal_ , "The lawsuit [was] widely viewed in Hollywood as a proxy for
the bitter war for readers and advertising dollars... The two sides agreed on
a statement reading in part: 'Prometheus admits that _The Hollywood Reporter_
copied source code from Penske Media Corporation's Web site www.tvline.com;
Prometheus and _The Hollywood Reporter_ have apologized to Penske Media.'"[44]

##  Current status and legacy[edit]

_The Hollywood Reporter_ published out of the same offices on Sunset Boulevard
for more than a half century. Today, the offices are located in L.A.'s Mid-
Wilshire district.

_The Hollywood Reporter_ sponsors and hosts a number of major industry events
and awards ceremonies. It hosted 13 such events in 2012, including the Women
in Entertainment Breakfast, where it announced its annual Power 100 list of
the industry's most powerful women;[45] the Key Art Awards (for achievement in
entertainment advertising and communications); Power Lawyers Breakfast; Next
Gen (honoring the industry's 50 fastest-rising stars and executives age 35 and
under); Nominees Night; and the 25 Most Powerful Stylists Luncheon.

###  Awards season[edit]

Entertainment-industry awards receive ample coverage from _The Hollywood
Reporter_ , both in print and online. The magazine handicaps all the races,
profiles the contenders and analyzes the business impact of nominations and
wins. THR awards analyst Scott Feinberg analyzes and predicts the Emmy and
Oscar races (his weekly _Feinberg Forecast_ is published from late August up
to the Academy Awards broadcast). THR also offers special print editions, such
as its annual Oscar and Emmy issues, during respective awards seasons. THR.com
features The Race, an awards-coverage blog, which encompasses Race to the
Oscars, an app dedicated to Academy Awards coverage for iPhone and Android
platforms. [ _citation needed_ ]

### Competition with _Variety_ [edit]

In March 2007, _The Hollywood Reporter_ surpassed _Variety_ to achieve the
largest total distribution of any entertainment daily.[46]

_Daily Variety_ and _The Hollywood Reporter_ both are located on Wilshire
Boulevard along the well-trafficked "Miracle Mile". Staffers often migrate
between the papers. _Variety_ was long established as an entertainment trade
paper in vaudeville circles, Tin Pan Alley and in the Theater District of New
York City, but it was _The Hollywood Reporter_ that began covering the
developing film business in Hollywood in 1930. _Variety_ did not start its
Hollywood edition until 1933. [ _citation needed_ ]

_The Hollywood Reporter_ maintains a business association with the home
entertainment trade publication _Home Media Magazine_ , which is owned by
Questex Media Group. The alliance includes an exchange of stories when the
need arises, and gives _The Reporter_ access into the home entertainment
trade, which _Variety_ enjoys with its sister publication, the Reed-owned
_Video Business._

##  See also[edit]

  * Nielsen Business Media
  * Tubefilter

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Soshnick, Scott (March 9, 2017). "Dodgers' Boehly Leads $100 Million DraftKings Investment". _Bloomberg News_. Retrieved  10 March 2017. 
  2. **^** "Billy Wilkerson". Retrieved  October 8, 2013. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Littleton, Cynthia; Byrge, Duane (March 17, 2005). "Paper Tale". _The Hollywood Reporter_. Archived from the original on October 9, 2007.  
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Baum, Gary; Miller, Daniel (November 19, 2012). "The Hollywood Reporter, After 65 Years, Addresses Role in Blacklist". _The Hollywood Reporter_.  
  5. **^** Holley, Val (2007). _Mike Connolly and the Manly Art of Hollywood Gossip_. Jefferson, N.C.: McFarland. p. 105\. ISBN 978-0-7864-1552-6.  
  6. **^** Wilkerson, William (July 29, 1946). "A Vote For Joe Stalin". _The Hollywood Reporter_. p.  1. 
  7. **^** Roberts, Jerry (2010). _The Complete History of American Film Criticism_ , Santa Monica Press, p. 85.
  8. **^** Wilkerson III, W. R. (November 19, 2012). "An Apology: The Son of THR Founder Billy Wilkerson on the Publication's Dark Past". _The Hollywood Reporter_.  

"Hollywood Reporter Apologizes For Fueling Hollywood Blacklist". _HuffPost_.
Associated Press. November 19, 2012.

"Son Of The Hollywood Reporter's Founder Apologizes For Father's Role In
Hollywood Blacklist". _KCBS News_. November 20, 2012.

"Hollywood Blacklist Victim Responds To Trade Paper's Apology For Fueling
Witch Hunt". _KCBS News_. November 20, 2012. Retrieved  September 4, 2017.

Critchlow, Donald T. (October 21, 2013). _When Hollywood Was Right: How Movie
Stars, Studio Moguls, and Big Business Remade American Politics_. Cambridge
University Press. p. 2\. ISBN 978-0521519694.

Smith, Jeff (March 26, 2014). _Film Criticism, the Cold War, and the
Blacklist: Reading the Hollywood Reds_. University of California Press. p.
273\.  (Subscription required (help)).

  9. **^** Anderson, A. Donald (August 7, 1988). "Hollywood's Version of Trade Wars". _The New York Times_.  
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ " 'Twas down and truly dirty at Billboard". _Media Life_. June 24, 2004. Archived from the original on April 9, 2009. Retrieved  April 9, 2009. CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link)
  11. **^** "Nielsen Media parent, VNU, agrees to $9B purchase". _Tampa Bay Business Journal_. March 9, 2006. Retrieved  2017-08-04. 
  12. **^** Dilworth, Dianna (August 11, 2010). "John Kilcullen "For Dummies" Creator Joins FastPencil's Board". _Adweek_. Retrieved  2017-08-04. 
  13. **^** Arango, Tim (June 24, 2004). "Sign of Trouble – Billboard Suit Claims Harassment, Defamation". _New York Post_.  
  14. **^** "Ex-Billboard editors file $29M sexual harassment suit". Court TV. June 24, 2004.  
  15. **^** Grinberg, Emanuella (June 6, 2006). "Sex discrimination suit against Billboard magazine settles during jury selection". CourtTV. Archived from the original on June 12, 2006. Retrieved August 5, 2017. CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown (link)
  16. **^** Finke, Nikki (February 28, 2008). "The Hollywood Reporter's Publisher Exits; More Variety-zation Of THR's Nielsen". _Deadline Hollywood_. Retrieved  September 5, 2017. 
  17. **^** Finke, Nikki (March 5, 2007). "H'Wood Reporter Editor Cynthia Littleton Jumps To Variety; Anne Thompson Also; HR Now Looking for 'Big Name' Editor". _Deadline Hollywood_.  
  18. **^** "Janice Min to Head Billboard, THR as Co-President of Entertainment Group for Guggenheim". _The Hollywood Reporter_. January 7, 2014.  
  19. **^** Raphael, T J (January 15, 2013). "Yahoo Exec Tapped To Head Prometheus Global Media". _Folio:_. Retrieved  September 4, 2017. 
  20. **^** Lieberman, David; Busch, Anita (December 17, 2015). "Guggenheim Prepares To Sell Hollywood Reporter, Dick Clark Productions To Exec". Deadline Hollywood. Retrieved September 4, 2017. 
  21. **^** Chariton, Jordan (December 17, 2015). "Guggenheim Media Spins Off Money-Losing Hollywood Reporter, Billboard to Company President Todd Boehly (Exclusive)". _TheWrap_. Retrieved  December 18, 2015. 
  22. **^** "Hollywood Reporter Parent Company Spins Off Media Assets to Executive". _The Hollywood Reporter_. December 27, 2015.  
  23. **^** Sass, Erik (February 6, 2017). "'The Hollywood Reporter,' 'Billboard' Put Up For Sale". _MediaPost_. New York City: MediaPost Communications. Retrieved  September 23, 2017. 
  24. **^** Donnelly, Matt (February 6, 2017). "The Hollywood Reporter for Sale Amid Ongoing Losses, Janice Min to Step Aside". _TheWrap_. Los Angeles: The Wrap News Inc. Retrieved  September 23, 2017. 
  25. **^** "Eric Mika Appointed to Boost THR". _Min_. April 30, 2007. Retrieved  September 4, 2017. 
  26. **^** "The Hollywood Reporter Cuts More Staff". _TheWrap_. June 3, 2009. Retrieved  September 4, 2017. 
  27. **^** Friedman, Roger (October 11, 2010). "The Hollywood Reporter Sheds Editor, Heads to Tabloid Land". _Hollywood 411_. Retrieved  September 4, 2017. 
  28. **^** Alvarez, Alex (April 26, 2010). "Lori Burgess Leaves OK! For The Hollywood Reporter". _Adweek_.  
  29. **^** Lewis, Randy (January 9, 2014). "Billboard shakeup puts Hollywood Reporter's Janice Min in charge". _Los Angeles Times_. Retrieved  June 10, 2014. 
  30. **^** "Lynne Segall Joins Hollywood Reporter as SVP, Publisher Jumps from Deadline.com". _Adweek_. June 17, 2011.  
  31. **^** Barnes, Brooks (February 6, 2017). "Janice Min Will Step Down as Hollywood Reporter's Top Editor". New York Times. Retrieved October 2, 2017. 
  32. **^** Clinard, Josh. "Covering the entertainment biz: Hollywood Reporter vs. Variety". Society of American Business Editors and Writers. Retrieved October 11, 2013. 
  33. **^** "The Hollywood Reporter Launches New Style Website Pret-A-Reporter". _The Hollywood Reporter_. November 13, 2013. Retrieved  September 4, 2017. 
  34. **^** "Comscore subscriber data". Comscore. Retrieved  October 11, 2013. 
  35. **^** Ali, Rafat (April 10, 2008). "Nielsen Business Media Lays Off Between 40-50; Mainly Editorial". Gigaom. Retrieved September 4, 2017. 
  36. **^** "UPDATE: Layoffs Gut Hollywood Reporter; Variety's Stylephile Victim Of Recession". Deadline Hollywood. December 4, 2008.  
  37. **^** "Melissa Grego Joins B&C as Executive Editor". Broadcast & Cable. July 8, 2008.  
  38. **^** DiOrio, Carl (March 3, 2009). "Hollywood studios' trade group faces leaner budget". Reuters. 
  39. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Finke, Nikki (December 4, 2008). "UPDATE: Layoffs Gut Hollywood Reporter; Variety's Stylephile Victim Of Recession". _Deadline Hollywood_. Retrieved  May 19, 2013. 
  40. **^** "Most Intriguing: A Marquee Year for Richard Beckman in 2011?". _min Online_. November 22, 2010. Retrieved  2016-12-09. 
  41. **^** Barnes, Brooks. "Hollywood Reporter to Become a Weekly Magazine". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  October 11, 2013. 
  42. **^** Carr, David (May 29, 2011). "An Outsider Making Waves in Hollywood". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  October 11, 2013. 
  43. **^** Barnes, Brooks (February 15, 2013). "From Has-Been to Life of the Party". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  October 11, 2013. 
  44. **^** "Owners of Competing Hollywood Publications Settle Copyright Lawsuit". _The Wall Street Journal_. Retrieved  October 8, 2013. 
  45. **^** Cadenas, Kerensa. "Diane Keaton to be Honored with Sherry Lansing Leadership Award". IndieWire. Retrieved September 4, 2017. 
  46. **^** ABC Publisher's Statement, as compared to Variety and Daily Variety, March 2007

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**The Hollywood Reporter**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Eldridge Industries  
  
---  
  
  * _Billboard_
  * Dick Clark Productions
  * _The Hollywood Reporter_
  * _Spin_
  * _Stereogum_
  * _Vibe_

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Hollywood_Reporter&oldid=815537751"

Categories:

  * The Hollywood Reporter
  * VNU Business Media publications
  * Entertainment trade magazines
  * American weekly magazines
  * Magazines established in 1930
  * 1930 establishments in California
  * Magazines published in California
  * Media in Los Angeles
  * American lifestyle magazines

Hidden categories:

  * Pages containing links to subscription-only content
  * CS1 maint: BOT: original-url status unknown
  * Use mdy dates from December 2015
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from December 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2016
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2017
  * Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * বাংলা
  * भोजपुरी
  * Български
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * 한국어
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Српски / srpski
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 15 December 2017, at 12:57.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

