

# University of Toronto

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

This article is about the university's main campus in downtown Toronto. For
other uses, see University of Toronto (disambiguation).

University of Toronto

Coat of arms of the University of Toronto  
  
---  
Latin: Universitas Torontonensis  
  
Former names

| King's College (1827–1849)  
Motto | Latin: Velut arbor ævo  
  
Motto in English

| As a tree through the ages[1]  
Type | Public university  
Established | March 15, 1827; 190 years ago (March 15, 1827)  
Affiliation | AAU, ACU, AUCC, U15, URA  
Endowment |

  * C$2.13 billion (excl. colleges)[2]
  * C$2.84 billion (incl. colleges)[2]

  
  
Chancellor | Michael Wilson[3]  
President | Meric Gertler[3]  
  
Academic staff

| 2,547[4]  
  
Administrative staff

| 4,590[4]  
Students | 60,595[5]  
Undergraduates | 43,523[5]  
Postgraduates | 17,072[5]  
Location | Toronto, Ontario, Canada  
Coordinates: 43°39′42″N 79°23′42″W﻿ / ﻿43.66167°N 79.39500°W﻿ / 43.66167;
-79.39500  
Campus | Urban, 71 hectares (180 acres)[4]  
Colours |  |   |  
---|---  
Athletics | U Sports – OUA, CUFLA  
Nickname | Varsity Blues  
Sports | 44 varsity teams  
Mascot | True Blue (the Beaver)  
Website | utoronto.ca  
  
The **University of Toronto** ( **U of T** , **UToronto** , or **Toronto** )
is a public research university in Toronto, Ontario, Canada on the grounds
that surround Queen's Park. It was founded by royal charter in 1827 as _King's
College_ , the first institution of higher learning in the colony of Upper
Canada. Originally controlled by the Church of England, the university assumed
the present name in 1850 upon becoming a secular institution. As a collegiate
university, it comprises twelve colleges, which differ in character and
history, each with substantial autonomy on financial and institutional
affairs. It has two satellite campuses in Scarborough and Mississauga.

Academically, the University of Toronto is noted for influential movements and
curricula in literary criticism and communication theory, known collectively
as the Toronto School. The university was the birthplace of insulin and stem
cell research, and was the site of the first practical electron microscope,
the development of multi-touch technology, the identification of the first
black hole Cygnus X-1, and the development of the theory of NP-completeness.
By a significant margin, it receives the most annual scientific research
funding of any Canadian university. It is one of two members of the
Association of American Universities outside the United States, the other
being McGill University in Montreal, Quebec.[6]

The Varsity Blues are the athletic teams that represent the university in
intercollegiate league matches, with long and storied ties to gridiron
football and ice hockey. The university's Hart House is an early example of
the North American student centre, simultaneously serving cultural,
intellectual and recreational interests within its large Gothic-revival
complex.

The University of Toronto has educated three Governors General of Canada and
four Prime Ministers of Canada, four foreign leaders, fourteen Justices of the
Supreme Court, and has been affiliated with ten Nobel laureates.

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Grounds
  * 3 Governance and colleges
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Library and collections
    * 4.2 Reputation
  * 5 Research
  * 6 Athletics
  * 7 Culture and student life
    * 7.1 Greek life
    * 7.2 Theatre and music
    * 7.3 Student media
    * 7.4 Residences
    * 7.5 Demographics
  * 8 Notable people
  * 9 References
  * 10 Further reading
  * 11 External links

## History[edit]

The founding of a colonial college had long been the desire of John Graves
Simcoe, the first Lieutenant-Governor of Upper Canada.[7][8] As an Oxford-
educated military commander who had fought in the American Revolutionary War,
Simcoe believed a college was needed to counter the spread of republicanism
from the United States.[8] The Upper Canada Executive Committee recommended in
1798 a college be established in York, the colonial capital.[8]

A painting by Sir Edmund Walker depicts University College as it appeared in
1858.

On March 15, 1827, a royal charter was formally issued by King George IV,
proclaiming "from this time one College, with the style and privileges of a
University ... for the education of youth in the principles of the Christian
Religion, and for their instruction in the various branches of Science and
Literature ... to continue for ever, to be called King's College."[9] The
granting of the charter was largely the result of intense lobbying by John
Strachan, the influential Anglican Bishop of Toronto who took office as the
college's first president.[9][10] The original three-storey Greek Revival
school building was built on the present site of Queen's Park.[11][12][13]

Under Strachan's stewardship, King's College was a religious institution
closely aligned with the Church of England and the British colonial elite,
known as the Family Compact.[14] Reformist politicians opposed the clergy's
control over colonial institutions and fought to have the college
secularized.[15] In 1849, after a lengthy and heated debate, the newly elected
responsible government of Upper Canada voted to rename King's College as the
University of Toronto and severed the school's ties with the church.[10]
Having anticipated this decision, the enraged Strachan had resigned a year
earlier to open Trinity College as a private Anglican seminary.[16] University
College was created as the nondenominational teaching branch of the University
of Toronto. During the American Civil War, the threat of Union blockade on
British North America prompted the creation of the University Rifle Corps,
which saw battle in resisting the Fenian raids on the Niagara border in
1866.[17]

A Sopwith Camel aircraft rests on the Front Campus lawn in 1918, during World
War I.

Established in 1878, the School of Practical Science was precursor to the
Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering, which has been nicknamed _Skule_
since its earliest days.[18] While the Faculty of Medicine opened in 1843,
medical teaching was conducted by proprietary schools from 1853 until 1887,
when the faculty absorbed the Toronto School of Medicine.[19] Meanwhile, the
university continued to set examinations and confer medical degrees.[19] The
university opened the Faculty of Law in 1887, followed by the Faculty of
Dentistry in 1888, when the Royal College of Dental Surgeons became an
affiliate.[10] Women were first admitted to the university in 1884.[20]

A devastating fire in 1890 gutted the interior of University College and
destroyed thirty-three thousand volumes from the library,[21] but the
university restored the building and replenished its library within two
years.[21] Over the next two decades, a collegiate system took shape as the
university arranged federation with several ecclesiastical colleges, including
Strachan's Trinity College in 1904. The university operated the Royal
Conservatory of Music from 1896 to 1991 and the Royal Ontario Museum from 1912
to 1968; both still retain close ties with the university as independent
institutions.[22][23] The University of Toronto Press was founded in 1901 as
Canada's first academic publishing house.[24] The Faculty of Forestry, founded
in 1907 with Bernhard Fernow as dean, was Canada's first university faculty
devoted to forest science. In 1910, the Faculty of Education opened its
laboratory school, the University of Toronto Schools.

The First and Second World Wars curtailed some university activities as
undergraduate and graduate men eagerly enlisted.[25][26] Intercollegiate
athletic competitions and the Hart House Debates were suspended, although
exhibition and interfaculty games were still held.[26] The David Dunlap
Observatory in Richmond Hill opened in 1935, followed by the University of
Toronto Institute for Aerospace Studies in 1949.[10][27] The university opened
satellite campuses in Scarborough in 1964 and in Mississauga in 1967. The
university's former affiliated schools at the Ontario Agricultural College and
Glendon Hall became fully independent of the University of Toronto and became
part of University of Guelph in 1964 and York University in 1965,
respectively. Beginning in the 1980s, reductions in government funding
prompted more rigorous fundraising efforts.[10] The University of Toronto was
the first Canadian university to amass a financial endowment greater than C$1
billion in 2007.[28]

## Grounds[edit]

Soldiers' Tower, a memorial to alumni fallen in the World Wars, contains a
51-bell carillon.

The university grounds lie about 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) north of the Financial
District in Downtown Toronto, and immediately south of the neighbourhoods of
Yorkville and The Annex. The site encompasses 71 hectares (180 acres) bounded
mostly by Bay Street to the east, Bloor Street to the north, Spadina Avenue to
the west and College Street to the south.[4] An enclave surrounded by
university grounds, Queen's Park, contains the Ontario Legislative Building
and several historic monuments. With its green spaces and many interlocking
courtyards, the university forms a distinct region of urban parkland in the
city's downtown core.[29] The namesake University Avenue is a ceremonial
boulevard and arterial thoroughfare that runs through downtown between Queen's
Park and Front Street. The Spadina, St. George, Museum, and Queen's Park
stations of the Toronto subway system are nearby.

Stone pillars of the Bennett Gates mark the southern entrance of Philosopher's
Walk.

The architecture is epitomized by a combination of Romanesque and Gothic
Revival buildings spread across the eastern and central portions of campus,
most dating between 1858 and 1929. The traditional heart of the university,
known as Front Campus, is near the campus centre in an oval lawn enclosed by
King's College Circle.[29] The centrepiece is the main building of University
College, built in 1857 with an eclectic blend of Richardsonian Romanesque and
Norman architectural elements.[30] The dramatic effect of this blended design
by architect Frederick William Cumberland drew praise from European visitors
of the time: "Until I reached Toronto," remarked Lord Dufferin during his
visit in 1872, "I confess I was not aware that so magnificent a specimen of
architecture existed upon the American continent."[31] The building was
declared a National Historic Site of Canada in 1968.[32] Built in 1907,
Convocation Hall is recognizable for its domed roof and Ionic-pillared
rotunda. Although its foremost function is hosting the annual convocation
ceremonies, the building is a venue for academic and social events throughout
the year.[33] The sandstone buildings of Knox College epitomizes the North
American collegiate Gothic design, with its characteristic cloisters
surrounding a secluded courtyard.[34]

The neoclassical Convocation Hall is characterized by its domed roof and
Ionic-pillared rotunda.

A lawn at the northeast is anchored by Hart House, a Gothic-revival student
centre complex. Among its many common rooms, the building's Great Hall is
noted for large stained-glass windows and a long quotation from John Milton's
_Areopagitica_ inscribed around the walls.[35][36] The adjacent Soldiers'
Tower stands 143 feet (44 m) tall as the most prominent structure in the
vicinity, its stone arches etched with the names of university members lost to
the battlefields of the two World Wars.[37] The tower houses a 51-bell
carillon played on special occasions such as Remembrance Day and
convocation.[38] North of University College, the main building of Trinity
College displays Jacobethan Tudor architecture, while its chapel was built in
the Perpendicular Gothic style of Giles Gilbert Scott.[39] The chapel features
exterior walls of sandstone and interiors of Indiana Limestone, and was built
by Italian stonemasons using ancient building methods.[40] Philosopher's Walk
is a scenic footpath that follows a meandering, wooded ravine, the buried
Taddle Creek, linking with Trinity College, Varsity Arena and the Faculty of
Law. Victoria College is on the eastern side of Queen's Park, centred on a
Romanesque main building made of contrasting red sandstone and grey
limestone.[41]

Developed after the Second World War, the western section of the campus
consists mainly of modernist and internationalist structures that house
laboratories and faculty offices.[29] The most significant example of
Brutalist architecture is the massive Robarts Library complex, built in 1972
and opened a year later in 1973. It features raised podia, extensive use of
triangular geometric designs and a towering fourteen-storey concrete structure
that cantilevers above a field of open space and mature trees.[42] Sidney
Smith Hall is the home to the Faculty of Arts and Science, as well as a few
departments within the faculty. The Leslie L. Dan Pharmacy Building, completed
in 2006, exhibits the high-tech architectural style of glass and steel by
British architect Norman Foster.[43]

## Governance and colleges[edit]

Old Vic, the main building of Victoria College, typifies the Richardsonian
Romanesque style.

The University of Toronto has traditionally been a decentralized institution,
with governing authority shared among its central administration, academic
faculties and colleges.[44] The Governing Council is the unicameral
legislative organ of the central administration, overseeing general academic,
business and institutional affairs.[45] Before 1971, the university was
governed under a bicameral system composed of the board of governors and the
university senate.[44] The chancellor, usually a former governor general,
lieutenant governor, premier or diplomat, is the ceremonial head of the
university. The president is appointed by the council as the chief
executive.[45]

Unlike most North American institutions, the University of Toronto is a
collegiate university with a model that resembles those of the University of
Cambridge and the University of Oxford in Britain.[46] The colleges hold
substantial autonomy over admissions, scholarships, programs and other
academic and financial affairs, in addition to the housing and social duties
of typical residential colleges.[45][46] The system emerged in the 19th
century, as ecclesiastical colleges considered various forms of union with the
University of Toronto to ensure their viability. The desire to preserve
religious traditions in a secular institution resulted in the federative
collegiate model that came to characterize the university.[46]

The Chapel of Trinity College reflects the college's Anglican heritage.

University College was the founding nondenominational college, created in 1853
after the university was secularized. Knox College, a Presbyterian
institution, and Wycliffe College, a low church seminary, both encouraged
their students to study for non-divinity degrees at University College.[47] In
1885, they entered a formal affiliation with the University of Toronto, and
became federated schools in 1890.[34][48] The idea of federation initially met
strong opposition at Victoria University, a Methodist school in Cobourg, but a
financial incentive in 1890 convinced the school to join.[49] Decades after
the death of John Strachan, the Anglican seminary Trinity College entered
federation in 1904,[50] followed in 1910 by St. Michael's College, a Roman
Catholic college founded by the Basilian Fathers.[51] Among the institutions
that had considered federation but ultimately remained independent were
McMaster University, a Baptist school that later moved to Hamilton,[47] and
Queen's College, a Presbyterian school in Kingston that later became Queen's
University.[52]

**Colleges of the University of Toronto**

**Constituent colleges**

  * Innis College
  * New College
  * University College
  * Woodsworth College

**Theological colleges**

  * Knox College
  * Regis College
  * Wycliffe College

|

**Federated colleges**

  * St. Michael's College
  * Trinity College
    * St. Hilda's College
  * Victoria University
    * Emmanuel College

**Postgraduate college**

  * Massey College

  
---|---  
  
The post-war era saw the creation of New College in 1962, Innis College in
1964 and Woodsworth College in 1974, all of them nondenominational.[53] Along
with University College, they comprise the university's constituent colleges,
which are established and funded by the central administration and are
therefore financially dependent.[54][55] Massey College was established in
1963 by the Massey Foundation as a college exclusively for graduate
students.[56] Regis College, a Jesuit seminary, entered federation with the
university in 1979.[57]

In contrast with the constituent colleges, the colleges of Knox, Massey,
Regis, St. Michael's, Trinity, Victoria and Wycliffe continue to exist as
legally distinct entities, each possessing a separate financial endowment.
While St. Michael's, Trinity and Victoria continue to recognize their
religious affiliations and heritage, they have since adopted secular policies
of enrolment and teaching in non-divinity subjects.[55] Some colleges have, or
once had, collegiate structures of their own: Emmanuel College is a college of
Victoria and St. Hilda's College is part of Trinity;[50][58] St. Joseph’s
College had existed as a college within St. Michael's until it was dissolved
in 2006.[51] Ewart College existed as an affiliated college until 1991, when
it was merged into Knox College.[59] Postgraduate theology degrees are
conferred by the colleges of Knox, Regis and Wycliffe, along with the divinity
faculties within Emmanuel, St. Michael's and Trinity, including joint degrees
with the university through the Toronto School of Theology.[60]

## Academics[edit]

The Munk School of Global Affairs encompasses programs and research institutes
for international relations.

The Faculty of Arts and Science is the university's main undergraduate
faculty, and administers most of the courses in the college system.[61] While
the colleges are not entirely responsible for teaching duties, most of them
house specialized academic programs and lecture series. Among other subjects,
Trinity College is associated with programs in international relations, as are
University College with Canadian studies, Victoria College with Renaissance
studies, Innis College with film studies and urban studies, New College with
gender studies, Woodsworth College with industrial relations and St. Michael's
College with Medievalism.[62] The faculty teaches undergraduate commerce in
collaboration with the Rotman School of Management. The Faculty of Applied
Science and Engineering is the other major direct-entry undergraduate
faculty.[63]

The University of Toronto is the birthplace of an influential school of
thought on communication theory and literary criticism, known as the Toronto
School.[64][65][66] Described as "the theory of the primacy of communication
in the structuring of human cultures and the structuring of the human
mind",[66] the school is rooted in the works of Eric A. Havelock and Harold
Innis and the subsequent contributions of Edmund Snow Carpenter, Northrop Frye
and Marshall McLuhan. Since 1963, the McLuhan Program in Culture and
Technology of the Faculty of Information has carried the mandate for teaching
and advancing the Toronto School.[67]

The Sandford Fleming Building contains offices of the Faculty of Applied
Science and Engineering.

Several notable works in arts and humanities are based at the university,
including the _Dictionary of Canadian Biography_ since 1959 and the _Collected
Works ofErasmus_ since 1969.[68][69] The _Records of Early English Drama_
collects and edits the surviving documentary evidence of dramatic arts in pre-
Puritan England,[70] while the _Dictionary of Old English_ compiles the early
vocabulary of the English language from the Anglo-Saxon period.[71]

The Munk School of Global Affairs encompasses the university's various
programs and curricula in international affairs and foreign policy. As the
Cold War heightened, Toronto's Slavic studies program evolved into an
important institution on Soviet politics and economics, financed by the
Rockefeller, Ford and Mellon foundations.[72] The Munk School is also home to
the G20 Research Group, which conducts independent monitoring and analysis on
the Group of Twenty, and the Citizen Lab, which conducts research on Internet
censorship as a joint founder of the OpenNet Initiative.[73][74] The
university operates international offices in Berlin, Hong Kong and Siena.[75][
_dead link_ ]

The Dalla Lana School of Public Health is a Faculty of the University of
Toronto that began as one of the Schools of Hygiene begun by the Rockefeller
Foundation in 1927. The School went through a dramatic renaissance after the
2003 SARS crisis, and it is now Canada's largest public health school, with
more than 750 faculty, 800 students, and research and training partnerships
with institutions throughout Toronto and the world. With more than $39 million
in research funding per year, the School supports discovery in global health,
tobacco impacts on health, occupational disease and disability, air pollution,
inner city, circumpolar health, and many other pressing issues in population
health.

The Faculty of Medicine is affiliated with a network of ten teaching
hospitals, providing medical treatment, research and advisory services to
patients and clients from Canada and abroad.[76] A core member of the network
is University Health Network, itself a specialized federation of Toronto
General Hospital, Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, Toronto Western Hospital,
and Toronto Rehabilitation Institute.[77] Physicians in the medical institutes
have cross-appointments to faculty and supervisory positions in university
departments. The Rotman School of Management developed the discipline and
methodology of integrative thinking, upon which the school bases its
curriculum.[78] Founded in 1887, the Faculty of Law's emphasis on formal
teachings of liberal arts and legal theory was then considered unconventional,
but gradually helped shift the country's legal education system away from the
apprenticeship model that prevailed until the mid-20th century.[79] The
Ontario Institute for Studies in Education is the teachers college of the
university, affiliated with its two laboratory schools, the Institute of Child
Study and the University of Toronto Schools.[80] Autonomous institutes at the
university include the Canadian Institute for Theoretical Astrophysics, the
Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies and the Fields Institute.

**Faculties of the University of Toronto**

  * Faculty of Arts and Science
  * Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering
  * Faculty of Architecture, Landscape and Design
  * Faculty of Music
  * Faculty of Forestry
  * Faculty of Information

|

  * Faculty of Medicine
  * Faculty of Nursing
  * Faculty of Pharmacy
  * Faculty of Dentistry
  * Faculty of Kinesiology and Physical Education
  * Dalla Lana School of Public Health

|

  * Faculty of Law
  * Rotman School of Management
  * School of Public Policy and Governance
  * Ontario Institute for Studies in Education
  * Faculty of Social Work
  * Toronto School of Theology

  
---|---|---  
  
### Library and collections[edit]

Robarts Library houses the university's main collection for humanities and
social sciences.

The University of Toronto Libraries is the third-largest academic library
system in North America, following those of Harvard and Yale, measured by
number of volumes held.[81] The collections include more than ten million
bound volumes, 5.4 million microfilms, 70,000 serial titles and 1 million
maps, films, graphics and sound recordings.[82] The largest of the libraries,
Robarts Library, holds about five million bound volumes that form the main
collection for humanities and social sciences. The Thomas Fisher Rare Book
Library constitutes one of the largest repositories of publicly accessible
rare books and manuscripts. Its collections range from ancient Egyptian papyri
to incunabula and libretti;[83] the subjects of focus include British,
European and Canadian literature, Aristotle, Darwin, the Spanish Civil War,
the history of science and medicine, Canadiana and the history of books.[84]
Most of the remaining holdings are dispersed at departmental and faculty
libraries, in addition to about 1.3 million bound volumes the colleges
hold.[82] The university has collaborated with the Internet Archive since 2005
to digitize some of its library holdings.[85]

Housed within University College, the University of Toronto Art Centre
contains three major art collections. The Malcove Collection is primarily
represented by Early Christian and Byzantine sculptures, bronzeware,
furniture, icons and liturgical items.[86] It also includes glassware and
stone reliefs from the Greco-Roman period, and the painting _Adam and Eve_ by
Lucas Cranach the Elder, dated from 1538.[86] The University of Toronto
Collection features Canadian contemporary art,[87] while the University
College Art Collection holds significant works by the Group of Seven and 19th
century landscape artists.[87]

###  Reputation[edit]

University rankings  
---  
Global rankings  
_ARWU_ World[88] |  23  
_QS_ World[89] |  31  
_Times_ World[90] |  22  
_U.S News& World Report_ Global[91] |  20  
Canadian rankings  
_ARWU_ National[88] |  1  
_QS_ National[89] |  1  
_Times_ National[90] |  1  
_U.S News& World Report_ National[91] |  1  
_Maclean's_ Medical/Doctoral[92] |  2  
  
The University Ranking by Academic Performance places the University of
Toronto 2nd in the world in research performance.[93] The _Times Higher
Education World University Rankings_ of 2016 ranks the University of Toronto
at 22nd place globally and 1st in Canada, while the _QS World University
Rankings_ of 2017 placed the university at 31st in the world and 1st in
Canada.[94] In the _Academic Ranking of World Universities_ of 2014, the
University of Toronto is placed at 24th in the world and 1st in Canada.[95] It
ranked 25th worldwide in the 2012 report compiled by _Human Resources& Labor
Review_ on graduate performance,[96] 9th worldwide in the 2010 Performance
Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities,[97] 14th in the High
Impact Universities ranking,[98] 14th in a _New York Times_ employment survey
in 2013,[99] and 2nd globally in the University Ranking by Academic
Performance of 2014-2015.[100] In 2011, the university received a grade of A-
for environmental sustainability from the Sustainable Endowments
Institute.[101] The university has placed first among Canada's research
universities in the annual ranking by Research Infosource since 2001.[102] In
2011, the University of Toronto was named by _Newsweek_ as one of the top
three schools outside of the United States.[103] In 2016, it was also ranked
21st in the world by the U.S. News  & World Report’s Best Global Universities
Ranking.[104]

The University of Toronto ranked as the nation's top medical-doctoral
(category) university in _Maclean's_ magazine for eleven consecutive years
between 1994 and 2004.[105] Since 2009, it has joined 22 other national
institutions in withholding data from the magazine, citing continued concerns
regarding methodology.[106] In 2013, the Faculty of Law was named the top law
school in Canada by _Maclean's_ for the seventh consecutive year.[107]

According to Business Insider, it ranks among the top 50 engineering schools
or universities in the world and is ranked 2nd in Canada.[108]

## Research[edit]

The AeroVelo Atlas was the first to win the Sikorsky Human Powered Helicopter
Competition

Since 1926, the University of Toronto has been a member of the Association of
American Universities, a consortium of the leading North American research
universities. The university manages by far the largest annual research budget
of any university in Canada, with sponsored direct-cost expenditures of $878
million in 2010.[102][109][110] The federal government was the largest source
of funding, with grants from the Canadian Institutes of Health Research, the
Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council and the Social Sciences and
Humanities Research Council amounting to about one-third of the research
budget. About eight percent of research funding came from corporations, mostly
in the healthcare industry.[110]

The discovery of stem cells by McCulloch and Till is the basis for all modern
stem cell research.

The first practical electron microscope was built by the physics department in
1938.[111][112] During World War II, the university developed the G-suit, a
life-saving garment worn by Allied fighter plane pilots, later adopted for use
by astronauts.[113] Development of the infrared chemiluminescence technique
improved analyses of energy behaviours in chemical reactions.[114] In 1963,
the asteroid 2104 Toronto is discovered in the David Dunlap Observatory in
Richmond Hill and is named after the university.[115] In 1972, studies on
Cygnus X-1 led to the publication of the first observational evidence proving
the existence of black holes.[116] Toronto astronomers have also discovered
the Uranian moons of Caliban and Sycorax,[117] the dwarf galaxies of Andromeda
I, II and III, and the supernova SN 1987A. A pioneer in computing technology,
the university designed and built UTEC, one of the world's first operational
computers, and later purchased _Ferut_ , the second commercial computer after
UNIVAC I.[118] Multi-touch technology was developed at Toronto, with
applications ranging from handheld devices to collaboration walls.[119][120]
The AeroVelo Atlas, which was the first to win the Igor I. Sikorsky Human
Powered Helicopter Competition in 2013, was developed by the university's team
of students and graduates and was tested in Vaughan.

The Donnelly Centre is part of the Discovery District, one of the world's
largest biotechnology research clusters.

The discovery of insulin at the University of Toronto in 1921 is considered
among the most significant events in the history of medicine.[121][122] The
stem cell was discovered at the university in 1963, forming the basis for bone
marrow transplantation and all subsequent research on adult and embryonic stem
cells.[123] This was the first of many findings at Toronto relating to stem
cells, including the identification of pancreatic and retinal stem
cells.[124][125] The cancer stem cell was first identified in 1997 by Toronto
researchers,[126] who have since found stem cell associations in leukemia,
brain tumors and colorectal cancer.[127][128] Medical inventions developed at
Toronto include the glycaemic index,[129] the infant cereal Pablum,[130] the
use of protective hypothermia in open heart surgery[131] and the first
artificial cardiac pacemaker.[131] The first successful single-lung transplant
was performed at Toronto in 1981, followed by the first nerve transplant in
1988,[132] and the first double-lung transplant in 1989. Researchers
identified the maturation promoting factor that regulates cell division, and
discovered the T cell receptor, which triggers responses of the immune
system.[133] The university is credited with isolating the genes that cause
Fanconi anemia, cystic fibrosis and early-onset Alzheimer's disease, among
numerous other diseases.[134] Between 1914 and 1972, the university operated
the Connaught Medical Research Laboratories, now part of the pharmaceutical
corporation Sanofi-Aventis. Among the research conducted at the laboratory was
the development of gel electrophoresis.[135]

The University of Toronto is the primary research presence that supports one
of the world's largest concentrations of biotechnology firms.[136] More than
5,000 principal investigators reside within 2 kilometres (1.2 mi) from the
university grounds in Toronto's Discovery District, conducting $1 billion of
medical research annually.[136] MaRS Discovery District is a research park
that serves commercial enterprises and the university's technology transfer
ventures. In 2008, the university disclosed 159 inventions and had 114 active
start-up companies.[4] Its SciNet Consortium operates the most powerful
supercomputer in Canada.[137]

## Athletics[edit]

The 44 sports teams of the Varsity Blues represent the university in
intercollegiate competitions. The two main leagues in which the Blues
participate are U Sports for national competitions, and the auxiliary Ontario
University Athletics conference at the provincial level. The athletic nickname
of Varsity Blues was not consistently used until the 1930s; previously,
references such as "Varsity", "The Big Blue", "The Blue and White" and "The
Varsity Blue" also appeared interchangeably.[138] _The Blue and White_ is
commonly played and sung in athletic games as a fight song.[139]

The University of Toronto Rowing Club trains in Toronto Harbour for the 1924
Summer Olympics. The team won silver for Canada.

North American (gridiron) football traces its very origin to the University of
Toronto, with the first documented football game played at University College
on November 9, 1861.[140][141] The Blues played their first intercollegiate
football match in 1877 against the University of Michigan, in a game that
ended with a scoreless draw.[138] Since intercollegiate seasons began in 1898,
the Blues have won four Grey Cup, two Vanier Cup and 25 Yates Cup
championships, including the inaugural championships for all three
trophies.[138] However, the football team has hit a rough patch following its
last championship in 1993.[142] From 2001 until 2008, the Blues suffered the
longest losing streak in Canadian collegiate history, recording 49 consecutive
winless games.[143] This was preceded by a single victory in 2001 that ended a
run of 18 straight losses.[144] The site of Varsity Stadium has served as the
primary playing grounds of the Varsity Blues football and soccer programs
since 1898.[10] It also served as the venue for archery during the 2015 Pan
American Games.

Formed in 1891, the storied Varsity Blues men's ice hockey team has left many
legacies on the national, professional and international hockey scenes. Conn
Smythe played for the Blues as a centre during his undergraduate years, and
was a Blues coach from 1923 to 1926.[145] When Smythe took over the Toronto
Maple Leafs in 1927, his new team adopted the Varsity Blue's familiar blue-
and-white sweater design.[145] Blues hockey competed at the 1928 Winter
Olympics and captured the gold medal for Canada.[146] At the 1980 Winter
Olympics, Blues coach Tom Watt served as co-coach of the Canadian hockey team
in which six players were Varsity grads.[145] In all, the Blues have won the U
Sports University Cup national hockey title ten times, last in 1984. Varsity
Arena has been the permanent home of the Blues ice hockey programs since it
opened in 1926.[10] In men's basketball, the Varsity Blues have won 14
conference titles, including the inaugural championship in 1909, but have not
won a national title.[147] In swimming, the men's team has claimed the
national crown 16 times since 1964, while the women's team has claimed the
crown 14 times since 1970.[148] Established in 1897, the University of Toronto
Rowing Club is Canada's oldest collegiate rowing club.[149] It earned a silver
medal for the country in the 1924 Summer Olympics, finishing second to Yale's
crew.[149]

The back campus of University College was used for field hockey during the
2015 Pan American Games and the field was renamed Pan Am/Parapan Am Fields for
the duration of the Pan American Games.

## Culture and student life[edit]

Generations of students have attended speeches, debates and concerts at Hart
House.

In the heart of social, cultural and recreational life at the University of
Toronto lies Hart House, the sprawling neo-Gothic student activity centre that
was conceived by alumnus-benefactor Vincent Massey and named for his
grandfather Hart.[150] Opened in 1919, the complex established a communitarian
spirit in the university and its students, who at the time kept largely within
their own colleges under the decentralized collegiate system.[151] At Hart
House, a student can read in the library, dine casually or formally, have a
haircut,[152] visit the art gallery, watch a play in the theatre, listen to a
concert, observe or join in debates, play billiards, or go for a swim and find
a place to study, all under the same roof and within the span of a day. The
confluence of assorted functions is the result of a deliberate effort to
create a holistic educational experience, a goal summarized in the Founders'
Prayer.[151][153] The Hart House model was influential in the planning of
student centres at other universities, notably Cornell University's Willard
Straight Hall.[154][155]

Hart House resembles some traditional aspects of student representation
through its financial support of student clubs, and its standing committees
and board of stewards that are composed mostly of undergraduate students.
However, the main students' unions on administrative and policy issues are the
University of Toronto Students' Union, Association of Part-time Undergraduate
Students and the Graduate Students' Union. Student representative bodies also
exist at the various colleges, academic faculties and departments.

The Hart House Debating Club employs a debating style that combines the
American emphasis on analysis and the British use of wit.[156] Smaller
debating societies at Trinity, University and Victoria College have served as
initial training grounds for debaters who later progress to Hart House.[156]
The club won the World Universities Debating Championship in 1981 and
2006.[157] The North American Model United Nations hosts an annual Model
United Nations conference on campus, while the United Nations Society
participates in various North American and international
conferences.[158][159] The Toronto chess team has captured the top title six
times at the Pan American Intercollegiate Team Chess Championship. The Formula
SAE Racing Team won the Formula Student European Championships in 2003, 2005
and 2006.[160]

### Greek life[edit]

The University of Toronto is home to the first collegiate fraternity in
Canada, Zeta Psi, whose Toronto chapter has been active since 1879.[161] Other
fraternity chapters at the University of Toronto include Alpha Delta Phi,
Alpha Epsilon Pi, Delta Kappa Epsilon, Sigma Chi, Delta Upsilon, Phi Delta
Theta, Phi Kappa Sigma, Phi Gamma Delta, Psi Upsilon, Beta Theta Pi, Phi Kappa
Pi, Lambda Phi Epsilon, Sigma Nu, Theta Delta Chi, Alpha Kappa Nu, Alpha
Omicron Pi, Delta Delta Delta, Pi Beta Phi and Lambda Chi Alpha.[162] Other
Greek-letter societies include Alpha Gamma Delta, Alpha Phi, Alpha Sigma Nu,
Delta Phi Nu,[163] Gamma Phi Beta, Kappa Alpha Society, Delta Psi Delta, Kappa
Kappa Gamma, and alpha Kappa Delta Phi. A secret society known as _Episkopon_
has operated from Trinity College since 1858.

###  Theatre and music[edit]

Sunlight fills Knox College Chapel during a Christmas concert of the
engineering faculty's Skule Choir.

Hart House Theatre is the university's student amateur theatre, generally
producing four major plays every season. As old as Hart House itself, the
theatre is considered a pioneer in Canadian theatre for introducing the Little
Theatre Movement from Europe.[164][165] It has cultivated numerous performing-
arts talents, including Donald Sutherland, Lorne Michaels, Wayne and Shuster
and William Hutt. Three members of the Group of Seven painters (Harris, Lismer
and MacDonald) have been set designers at the theatre,[166] and composer
Healey Willan was director of music for fourteen productions.[166] The theatre
also hosts annual variety shows run by several student theatrical companies at
the colleges and academic faculties, the most prominent of which are _U.C.
Follies_ of University College, _Skule Nite_ of the Faculty of Engineering,
and _Daffydil_ of the Faculty of Medicine, the latter in its hundredth year of
production in 2010–2011.[167]

The main musical ensembles at Hart House are the orchestra, the chamber
strings, the chorus, the jazz choir, the jazz ensemble and the symphonic band.
The _Jazz at Oscar's_ concert series performs big band and vocal jazz on
Friday nights at the period lounge and bar of the Hart House Arbor Room.[168]
_Open Stage_ is the monthly open mic event featuring singers, comics, poets
and storytellers. The Sunday Concert is the oldest musical series at Hart
House; since 1922, the series has performed more than 600 classical music
concerts in the Great Hall, freely attended by the university community and
general audiences.[169][170] The public may also screen midday events held at
noon, when concerts are recited prior to formal debut.

###  Student media[edit]

William Lyon Mackenzie King was active in student media during his
undergraduate years.

_The Varsity_ is one of Canada's oldest student-run newspapers, in publication
since 1880.[20] The paper was originally a daily broadsheet, but has since
adopted a compact format and is now weekly during the Fall and Winter
semesters. It publishes online in the summer. _Hart House Review_ , a literary
magazine, publishes prose, poetry, and visual art from emerging Canadian
writers and artists. _The Newspaper_ is an independent student-run community
newspaper, published weekly since 1978. CIUT-FM is the university's campus
radio station, while the University of Toronto Television broadcasts student-
produced content. Students at each college and academic faculty also produce
their own set of journals and news publications. University College's _The
Gargoyle_ was an early training ground for such notables as journalist Naomi
Klein, and musician/comedian Paul Shaffer. Victoria University's _Acta
Victoriana_ is the oldest active literary journal in Canada, and provided
first publication credits to such literary figures as Margaret Atwood and
Northrop Frye.

Members of the student press have contributed to activist causes on several
notable occasions. At the height of debate on coeducation in 1880, _The
Varsity_ published an article in its inaugural issue voicing in favour of
admitting women.[20] In 1895, the university suspended the editor of _The
Varsity_ for breach of collegiality, after he published a letter that harshly
criticized the provincial government's dismissal of a professor and
involvement in academic affairs. University College students then approved a
motion by _Varsity_ staff member and future Prime Minister William Lyon
Mackenzie King and boycotted lectures for a week.[171][172] After Prime
Minister Pierre Trudeau decriminalized homosexuality throughout Canada in
1969, a medical research assistant placed an advertisement in _The Varsity_
seeking volunteers to establish the first university homophile association in
Canada.[173]

###  Residences[edit]

Teefy House, a residence hall of St. Michael's College, is home to female
first-year undergraduate students.

Each college at the University of Toronto operates its own set of residence
halls and dining halls clustered in a different area of the campus. Innis,
New, St. Michael's, Trinity, University, Victoria, and Woodsworth colleges
reserve most of their dormitories for their undergraduate students within the
Faculty of Arts and Science, while setting a portion available to students
from the professional and postgraduate faculties.[174] Massey College is
exclusively for graduate students, while Knox and Wycliffe Colleges mainly
house graduate theology students. Annesley Hall of Victoria College, a
National Historic Site, was the first university residence for women in
Canada. After St. Hilda's College became coeducational in 2005, Annesley Hall
and Loretto College of St. Michael's College are the last remaining women's
halls at the university.

As campus residences accommodate just 6,400 students in all, the university
guarantees housing only for undergraduates in their first year of study, while
most upper-year and graduate students reside off-campus.[4][175]
Traditionally, the adjacent neighbourhoods of The Annex and Harbord Village
are popular settling grounds for University of Toronto students, forming a
distinct student quarter enclave.[176][177] In 2004, the university purchased
and converted a nearby hotel into the Chestnut Residence, which houses
students from all colleges and faculties. There are also numerous fraternity
houses and student housing cooperatives, where boarders pay reduced rent for
assuming housekeeping duties.

### Demographics[edit]

The University of Toronto is known for having a high enrollment of
international students. In 2016-17, 19.7% of students were international.[178]
The University plans to grow its international enrollment to 20.1% by 2021-
22.

In 2001-02 the overall gender ratio was about 57.1% female to 42.9% male for
enrolled students, or about 15 males for every 20 females.[179] This gender
gap has improved slightly in recent years to 55.8% female and 44.2% male, or
about 16 males for every 20 females in 2014-15 (non-binary genders were not
reported).[180] However, this gap is worse for graduation rates, with 59% of
degrees conferred on females.[179] Gender ratios also depend on undergraduate
versus graduate enrollment, and department.

The overall average of high school grades for first year students was about
86% for fall 2014.[180] The retention rate was 92.1%.

In 2011-12 40.3% of the students were enrolled in the Social Science and
Humanities departments, 23.9% were enrolled in Biology, Engineering, and
Mathematics & Physical Sciences. General education accounted for 14.7%
enrollment (all undergraduates). Health Professions was 12.7%, Education 5.8%,
and Fine Arts 2.6%.[179]

## Notable people[edit]

Main article: List of University of Toronto people

  * William Lyon Mackenzie King, the longest-serving Prime Minister in Canadian history with over 21 years in office

  * Lester B. Pearson, Canadian Prime Minister and winner of the Nobel Peace Prize in 1957

  * John Kenneth Galbraith, noted economist and a leading proponent of 20th-century American liberalism

  * John Charles Fields, mathematician and the founder of the prestigious Fields Medal

  * Harold Innis helped develop the staples thesis and the Toronto School of communication theory

  * Frederick Banting, Nobel Laureate in Medicine and the first person to use insulin on humans

  * Adrienne Clarkson, Canadian stateswoman who served as the 26th Governor General of Canada

In addition to Havelock, Innis, Frye, Carpenter and McLuhan, former professors
of the 20th century include Frederick Banting, Harold Scott MacDonald Coxeter,
Robertson Davies, John Charles Fields, Leopold Infeld and C. B. Macpherson.
Ten Nobel laureates studied or taught at the University of Toronto. As of
2006, University of Toronto academics accounted for 15 of 23 Canadian members
in the American Academy of Arts and Sciences (65%) and 20 of 72 Canadian
fellows in the American Association for the Advancement of Science (28%).[109]
Among honorees from Canada between 1980 and 2006, University of Toronto
faculty made up 11 of 21 Gairdner Foundation International Award recipients
(52%), 44 of 101 Guggenheim Fellows (44%), 16 of 38 Royal Society fellows
(42%), 10 of 28 members in the United States National Academies (36%) and 23
of 77 Sloan Research Fellows (30%).[109]

Alumni of the University of Toronto's colleges, faculties and professional
schools have assumed notable roles in a wide range of fields and specialties.
In government, Governors General Vincent Massey and Adrienne Clarkson, Prime
Ministers William Lyon Mackenzie King, Arthur Meighen, Lester B. Pearson and
Paul Martin, and 14 Justices of the Supreme Court have all graduated from the
university, while world leaders include President of Latvia Vaira Vīķe-
Freiberga, Premier of the Republic of China Liu Chao-shiuan and President of
Trinidad and Tobago Noor Hassanali. Economist John Kenneth Galbraith,
political scientist David Easton, historian Margaret MacMillan, philosophers
David Gauthier and Ted Honderich, anthropologist Davidson Black, social
activist Ellen Pence, sociologist Erving Goffman, psychologists Endel Tulving,
Daniel Schacter, and Lisa Feldman Barrett, physicians Norman Bethune and
Charles Best, geologists Joseph Tyrrell and John Tuzo Wilson, mathematicians
Irving Kaplansky and William Kahan, physicists Arthur Leonard Schawlow and
Bertram Brockhouse, religion scholar Amir Hussain, architect James W. Strutt,
engineer Gerald Bull, computer scientists Alfred Aho and Brian Kernighan, and
astronauts Roberta Bondar and Julie Payette are also some of the most well-
known academic figures from the university.

In business, University of Toronto alumni include Rogers Communications' Ted
Rogers, Toronto-Dominion Bank's W. Edmund Clark, Bank of Montreal's Bill
Downe, Scotiabank's Peter Godsoe, Barrick Gold's Peter Munk, BlackBerry's Jim
Balsillie, AGF's Blake Goldring[181] eBay's Jeffrey Skoll, Fiat S.p.A.'s
Sergio Marchionne, and Apotex's Bernard Sherman. In literature and media, the
university has produced writers Stephen Leacock, John McCrae, Rohinton Mistry,
Margaret Atwood and Michael Ondaatje, film directors Arthur Hiller, Norman
Jewison, David Cronenberg and Atom Egoyan, actor Donald Sutherland,
screenwriter David Shore, television producer and writer Hart Hanson, musician
Paul Shaffer, journalists Malcolm Gladwell, Naomi Klein and Barbara Amiel.

## References[edit]

  1. **^** Originates from Horace _Odes_ , book I, ode 12, line 45: " _crescit occulto velut arbor ævo fama Marcelli_ " ("The fame of Marcellus grows like a tree over time unseen").
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Endowment figure does not include separate endowment funds maintained by individual colleges. _Financial Report - 2017_ (PDF). Financial Services Department, University of Toronto. 2017. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "University Governance and Administration". Retrieved  July 26, 2012. 
  4. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ Main campus FTE figures. For data on Scarborough and Mississauga, refer to the respective articles. Pask-Aubé, Corinne (2012). _University of Toronto Facts and Figures_. Office of Government, Institutional and Community Relations.  
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Quick Facts". University of Toronto. Retrieved  2017-07-04. 
  6. **^** "Association of American Universities". Aau.edu. Archived from the original on January 14, 2013. Retrieved  November 5, 2012. 
  7. **^** "Simcoe, John Graves". _Volume V_. Dictionary of Canadian Biography. 2000. Retrieved  November 2, 2008. 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Who was an early advocate for higher education in Upper Canada?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 2, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The story of the University of Toronto's original charter". University of Toronto Archives and Records Management Services. Retrieved  November 2, 2008. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  10. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ Friedland, Martin L. (2002). _The University of Toronto: A History_. University of Toronto Press. pp.  4, 31, 143, 156, 313, 376, 593–6. ISBN 0-8020-4429-8. 
  11. **^** "What university was founded 175 years ago?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 2, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  12. **^** Bissell, Claude T., ed. (1953), _University College, A Portrait 1853-1953_ , University of Toronto Press CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list (link)
  13. **^** Peppiatt, Liam. "Chapter 17: Universities Old and New". _Robertson's Landmarks of Toronto Revisited_.  
  14. **^** "Strachan, John". _Volume IX_. Dictionary of Canadian Biography Online. 2000. Retrieved  November 2, 2008. 
  15. **^** "How does history remember the 1849 conversion of King's College to the University of Toronto?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 2, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  16. **^** Faught, Brad (2000). "The Cast of Presidents". _University of Toronto Magazine_ (Summer 2000).  
  17. **^** "In what battle did the University Rifle Corps first see action?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 2, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  18. **^** "In 1878, what disciplines were launched in the University of Toronto's "Little Red Skulehouse"?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 2, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  19. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "What medical school was recognized as among the "best on the continent" within 20 years of its opening?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 2, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "What was front page news in the inaugural issue of the student paper The Varsity in 1880?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved July 19, 2007. [ _dead link_ ]
  21. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "What was so heartbreaking about Valentine's Day, 1890?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved July 19, 2007. [ _dead link_ ]
  22. **^** Dickson, Lovat (1986). _The Museum Makers: the Story of the Royal Ontario Museum_. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-8020-7441-3.  
  23. **^** Schabas, Ezra (2005). _There's Music in These Walls: A History of the Royal Conservatory of Music_. Dundurn Press Ltd. ISBN 1-55002-540-6.  
  24. **^** Parker, George L. (2009). "University Presses". _The Canadian Encyclopedia_. Historica Foundation of Canada.  
  25. **^** "In 1914, why were students marching in the University of Toronto's Hart House under the command of a chemistry professor?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 11, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  26. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "How many University of Toronto students and alumni served in the Canadian Armed Forces during the Second World War?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved November 11, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  27. **^** Russel, C. H. (February 1999). "The Legacy Continues:C. A. Chant and the David Dunlap Observatory". _Journal of the Royal Astronomical Society of Canada_. **93** (1).  
  28. **^** "Canadian university endowment funds skyrocket". _Ottawa Citizen_. CanWest Global. October 26, 2007. Archived from the original on October 27, 2007. Retrieved  March 13, 2009. 
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Allsop, Robert; et al. (1999). "Investing in the Landscape". The Open Space Steering Committee, University of Toronto. Retrieved January 11, 2009. 
  30. **^** Timperlake, J. (1877). _Illustrated Toronto, Past and Present_. Toronto: Peter A. Gross. p.  209. 
  31. **^** Simmins, Geoffrey (1997). _Fred Cumberland: Building the Victorian Dream_. University of Toronto Press. p.  92\. ISBN 0-8020-0679-5. 
  32. **^** _Minutes of the Historic Sites and Monuments Board of Canada_. National Historic Sites Directorate. 1968. Fed/Prov/Terr identifier 558.  
  33. **^** Duffy, Dennis (2002). "As Canadian as a Snowflake". _University of Toronto Magazine_ (Spring 2002). Retrieved  January 11, 2009. 
  34. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Fraser, Brian J. (1995). _Church, College, and Clergy: A History of Theological Education at Knox College, Toronto, 1844–1994_. McGill-Queen's University Press. p.  126\. ISBN 978-0-7735-1351-8. 
  35. **^** Kilgour, David (1999). _A Strange Elation: Hart House, The First Eighty Years_. Toronto: Hart House. ISBN 978-0-7727-0649-2.  
  36. **^** Colombo, John Robert (1984). _Canadian Literary Landmarks_. Dundurn Press Ltd. p.  194\. ISBN 0-88882-073-9. 
  37. **^** "Soldiers' Tower Committee Information". Soldiers' Tower Committee, University of Toronto. Retrieved  March 15, 2009. 
  38. **^** Leeper, Muriel (1998). "Ringing the bells – Carillon demonstration by musician Gerald Martindale at the Soldiers' Tower Carillon at the University of Toronto in Canada". _Performing Arts & Entertainment in Canada_. **32** (1). ISSN 1185-3433.  
  39. **^** Arthur, Eric Ross; Otto, Stephen A. (1986). _Toronto, No Mean City_. University of Toronto Press. p.  130\. ISBN 0-8020-6587-2. 
  40. **^** "Trinity College Chapel". University of Trinity College.  
  41. **^** Houghton, Sarah (March 12, 2003). "One Hundred Years of Architecture". _The Strand_. Archived from the original on September 15, 2007. Retrieved  March 15, 2009. 
  42. **^** McClelland, Michael; Stewart, Graeme; E.R.A. Architects (2007). _Concrete Toronto: A Guidebook to Concrete Architecture from the Fifties to the Seventies_. Coach House Books. pp.  34, 164, 173. ISBN 1-55245-193-3. 
  43. **^** McKeough, Tim (2007). "The Leslie L. Dan Pharmacy Building, Toronto". _Architectural Record_ (May 2007). Retrieved  March 14, 2009. 
  44. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Ross, Murray G. (April 1972). "The dilution of academic power in Canada: The University of Toronto Act". _Minerva_. Springer Netherlands. **10** (2): 242–258. doi:10.1007/BF01682420.  
  45. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _The University of Toronto Act_ , S.O. 1971, c. 56, s. 2, 10, 12, as amended by S.O. 1978 c. 88
  46. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Alexander, William John (1906). _The University of Toronto and Its Colleges, 1827–1906_. Toronto: H. H. Langton, The University Library.  
  47. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "What theological college bucked the federation trend with the University of Toronto in 1888?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved December 26, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  48. **^** "History & Mission". Wycliffe College. 2008. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  49. **^** "What small town fought to keep its college from moving to Toronto and federating with U of T?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved December 26, 2008. [ _dead link_ ]
  50. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Historical Background". University of Trinity College. 2008. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  51. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "About St Mike's: Our History". St. Michael's College. 2008. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  52. **^** "History: Campus & People". Queen's University. 2007. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  53. **^** "Introduction to New College". New College, University of Toronto. 2007. Retrieved  December 27, 2008.  "About Innis College". Innis College, University of Toronto. 2005. Retrieved December 27, 2008.  "Mission and History". Woodsworth College, University of Toronto. 2006. Retrieved December 27, 2008. 
  54. **^** Riggall, Catherine (2010). _University of Toronto Financial Report_ (PDF). Office of the Vice-President, Business Affairs. 
  55. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Funding for the Federated Universities: Policy and Procedures". University of Toronto. 1998 [1974]. Archived from the original (Memorandum) on August 2, 2008. Retrieved December 27, 2008. 
  56. **^** "Massey College". Massey College. 2007. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  57. **^** "History of Regis College". Regis College. 2008. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  58. **^** "The History of Victoria University and Emmanuel College" (PDF). Victoria University. 2004. Archived from the original (PDF) on February 5, 2009. Retrieved December 27, 2008. 
  59. **^** "History". Knox College, University of Toronto. 2008. Archived from the original on December 9, 2008. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  60. **^** "TST Member and Affiliate Schools with Location Information". Toronto School of Theology. 2008. Archived from the original on October 11, 2007. Retrieved  December 27, 2008. 
  61. **^** "A&S at a Glance". University of Toronto Faculty of Arts and Science. 2007. Archived from the original on June 17, 2008. Retrieved  November 8, 2008. 
  62. **^** "International Relations". _Trinity College Programs_. University of Trinity College.  ; "Canadian Studies home". University College. ; "The Renaissance Studies Program". Victoria College. ; "Innis Programs". Innis College. 2005. ; "Women and Gender Studies". New College. ; "Mediaeval Studies". _Undergraduate Studies_. University of St. Michael's College. 2008.  
  63. **^** "University of Toronto 2009–2010 Viewbook". University of Toronto. 2008. Retrieved  January 12, 2009. 
  64. **^** Logan, Robert K. (1986). _The Alphabet Effect_. New York: William Morrow and Company. p. 22\. ISBN 978-0-312-00993-9.  
  65. **^** Olson, David R. (1994). _The World on Paper: The Conceptual and Cognitive Implications of Writing and Reading_. Cambridge: Cambridge University Press. p. 15\. ISBN 978-0-521-57558-4.  
  66. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Murray, Oswyn. "The Word is Mightier than the Pen". _The Times Literary Supplement_. **4** (498): 655.  
  67. **^** "History and Mandate". McLuhan Program in Culture and Technology. Retrieved  November 15, 2008. 
  68. **^** "Outline of the Project". _Dictionary of Canadian Biography_. 2000. Retrieved  January 19, 2009. 
  69. **^** Desiderius Erasmus (1969). _Collected works of Erasmus: Vol. 1 – 78_. Toronto: University of Toronto Press.  
  70. **^** "What is REED?". _Records of Early English Drama_. Centre for Research in Early English Drama, University of Toronto. 2006. Retrieved  January 19, 2009. 
  71. **^** "About the Dictionary of Old English". _Dictionary of Old English_. Centre for Medieval Studies, University of Toronto. Retrieved  January 19, 2009. 
  72. **^** "What helped launch Slavic studies as a growth discipline at the University of Toronto?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved January 18, 2009. [ _dead link_ ]
  73. **^** "Advanced Research Projects". Citizen Lab. 2004. Archived from the original on June 3, 2008. Retrieved  November 20, 2008. 
  74. **^** "Welcome to Psiphon". Citizen Lab. Retrieved  November 20, 2008. 
  75. **^** "University of Toronto International Centres". University of Toronto. 2009. Retrieved September 2010.   Check date values in: `|access-date=` (help)
  76. **^** "Hospital Partners". _Experience Research_. Office of the Vice-President, Research, University of Toronto. 2008. Retrieved  March 15, 2009. 
  77. **^** "Toronto General Hospital". Archived from the original on October 5, 2006. Retrieved  November 30, 2008. ; "Princess Margaret Hospital". Archived from the original on October 4, 2006. Retrieved November 30, 2008. ; "Toronto Western Hospital". University Health Network. Archived from the original on October 4, 2006. Retrieved November 30, 2008. 
  78. **^** Srikant M. Datar; David A. Garvin; Patrick G. Cullen (2010). _Rethinking the MBA: Business Education at a Crossroads_. Boston: Harvard Business Press. pp. 131–136. ISBN 1-4221-3164-5.  
  79. **^** Moore, Christopher (1997). _The Law Society of Upper Canada and Ontario's lawyers, 1797–1997_. Toronto: University of Toronto Press. pp. 237–262. ISBN 0-8020-4127-2.  
  80. **^** "History and Function of OISE". _Graduate Studies in Education Bulletin_. Ontario Institute for Studies in Education. 2008. Retrieved  March 15, 2009. 
  81. **^** Kyrillidou, Martha; Morris, Shaneka; Roebuck, Gary (2012). _ARL Statistics 2010–11_. Washington, D.C.: Association of Research Libraries.  
  82. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Statistics Commission ; presented to Parliament by the Financial Secretary to the Treasury by Command of Her Majesty, July 2007. (2007). _Annual Statistics: 2006–07_ (PDF). University of Toronto Libraries. ISBN 0-10-171382-7. CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list (link)
  83. **^** "Index to Collections, Manuscript Collections". Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library. Retrieved  November 15, 2008. 
  84. **^** "Book Collections". Thomas Fisher Rare Book Library. Retrieved  November 15, 2008. 
  85. **^** Kesmodel, David; Vara, Vauhini (November 9, 2005). "Building an Online Library, One Volume at a Time". _The Wall Street Journal_.  
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Malcove Collection Objects List" (PDF). University of Toronto Art Centre. Retrieved December 13, 2008. 
  87. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "University of Toronto and University College Collections" (PDF). University of Toronto Art Centre. Retrieved December 13, 2008. 
  88. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017 - Canada". ShanghaiRanking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  15 August 2017. 
  89. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "QS World University Rankings - 2018". QS Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  20 June 2017. 
  90. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "World University Rankings 2018". Times Higher Education. 2017. Retrieved  5 September 2017. 
  91. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Best Global Universities in Canada". _www.usnews.com_. U.S. News  & World Report. October 2017. Retrieved 26 October 2017. 
  92. **^** "University Rankings 2018: Canada's top Medical/Doctoral schools". Maclean's. 11 October 2017. Retrieved  26 October 2017. 
  93. **^** "University Ranking by Academic Performance". _University Ranking by Academic Performance_. Quacquarelli Symonds.  
  94. **^** "QS World University Rankings Results 2014". _QS World University Rankings_. Quacquarelli Symonds.  
  95. **^** "Top 100 World Universities". _Academic Ranking of World Universities 2010_. Institute of Higher Education, Shanghai Jiao Tong University. August 15, 2011.  
  96. **^** "World Top 300 Universities Alumni Ranking". Chasecareer.net. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved  June 6, 2012. 
  97. **^** "The Top 100 World Universities". Higher Education Evaluation & Accreditation Council of Taiwan. July 31, 2009. Archived from the original on January 11, 2010.  
  98. **^** "The High Impact Universities 2010 World University Rankings". University of Western Australia. Retrieved  March 30, 2011. 
  99. **^** "Ready for the Job Market?". _New York Times_. The New York Times Company. October 28, 2013. Retrieved  October 31, 2013. 
  100. **^** "URAP World Ranking 2012". URAP Research Laboratory.  
  101. **^** "University of Toronto". Sustainable Endowments Institute. 2011. Retrieved  June 21, 2012. 
  102. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Canada's Top 50 Research Universities 2012" (PDF). Research Infosource Inc. 2011. Archived from the original (PDF) on March 24, 2012. Retrieved April 18, 2012. 
  103. **^** "Newsweek names U of T one of top three schools outside U.S, after the University of Cambridge and the University of Oxford". University of Toronto. 2011. Retrieved  March 16, 2013. 
  104. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings". USANews.com. 2016. Retrieved  October 26, 2016. 
  105. **^** "Maclean's historical rankings". University of Waterloo Communications and Public Affairs. 2006. Retrieved  March 27, 2007. 
  106. **^** "11 universities bow out of Maclean's university rankings" (Press release). University of Toronto. August 14, 2006. Retrieved  August 15, 2006. 
  107. **^** "The 2013 Maclean's Canadian Law School Ranking". _Maclean's_. September 19, 2013. Retrieved  October 1, 2013. 
  108. **^** "The World's Best Engineering Schools". Business Insider.  
  109. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Challis, John R. G. (2006). "2005–2006 Annual Research Report" (PDF). Office of the Vice-President, Research and Associate Provost, University of Toronto. Retrieved November 16, 2008. 
  110. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Young, R. Paul (2007). "2006–2007 Annual Research Report". Office of the Vice-President, Research and Associate Provost, University of Toronto. Retrieved November 16, 2008. "By the Numbers" (PDF). Office of the Vice-President, Research and Associate Provost, University of Toronto. 2007. Retrieved December 19, 2008. 
  111. **^** "James Hillier". _Inventor of the Week_. Massachusetts Institute of Technology. Retrieved  November 20, 2008. 
  112. **^** Pearce, Jeremy (January 22, 2007). "James Hillier, 91, Dies; Co-Developed Electron Microscope". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  November 20, 2008. 
  113. **^** Dotto, Lydia. "Canada's Aerospace Medicine Pioneers" (PDF). Canadian Space Agency. Retrieved November 20, 2008. 
  114. **^** "The Nobel Prize in Chemistry 1986" (Press release). Nobel Foundation. October 15, 1986. Retrieved  November 20, 2008. 
  115. **^** "Canadian Asteroids". The Royal Astronomy Society of Canada. July 22, 2008. Archived from the original on February 1, 2009. Retrieved  January 19, 2009. 
  116. **^** Bolton, C. T. (1972). "Identification of Cygnus X-1 with HDE 226868". _Nature_. **235** (2): 271–273. Bibcode:1972Natur.235..271B. doi:10.1038/235271b0. Retrieved  March 10, 2008. 
  117. **^** "Two New Moons Of Uranus Discovered". Science Daily. November 1, 1997. Retrieved  November 20, 2008. 
  118. **^** Williams, Michael R. (1994). "UTEC and Ferut: The University of Toronto's Computation Centre" (PDF). _IEEE Annals of the History of Computing_. **16** (2): 4. doi:10.1109/85.279226. Archived from the original (PDF) on July 13, 2004. Retrieved November 17, 2008. 
  119. **^** Mehta, Nimish (1982). "A Flexible Machine Interface" (thesis). Department of Electrical Engineering, University of Toronto. 
  120. **^** Buxton, Bill (August 22, 2008). "Multi-Touch Systems that I Have Known and Loved". Retrieved  November 18, 2008. 
  121. **^** Altman, Lawrence K. (September 14, 1982). "The Tumultuous Discovery of Insulin: Finally, Hidden Story Is Told". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  November 23, 2008. 
  122. **^** Cheng, Alice Y.Y.; Zinman, Bernard (2002). "Insulin analogues and the treatment of diabetes". _Diabetes: From Research to Diagnosis and Treatment_. Informa Health Care. ISBN 1-84184-151-X.  
  123. **^** Strauss, Evelyn (2005). "2005 Albert Lasker Basic Medical Research Award". Lasker Foundation. Retrieved November 23, 2008. 
  124. **^** Seaberg, Raewyn M; Smukler, Simon R; Kieffer, Timothy J; Enikolopov, Grigori; Asghar, Zeenat; Wheeler, Michael B; Korbutt, Gregory; van der Kooy, Derek (August 22, 2004). "Clonal identification of multipotent precursors from adult mouse pancreas that generate neural and pancreatic lineages". _Nature Biotechnology_. **22** (9): 1115–1124. doi:10.1038/nbt1004. PMID 15322557.  
  125. **^** Tropepe, V.; Coles, B.L.; Chiasson, B.J.; Horsford, D.J.; Elia, A.J.; McInnes, R.R.; van der Kooy, D. (March 2000). "Retinal stem cells in the adult mammalian eye". _Science_. **287** (5460): 2032–6. Bibcode:2000Sci...287.2032T. doi:10.1126/science.287.5460.2032. PMID 10720333.  
  126. **^** Park, Alice (April 17, 2006). "Stem Cells That Kill". _Time_. **167** (17).  
  127. **^** Wade, Nicholas (February 21, 2006). "Stem Cells May Be Key to Cancer". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  November 23, 2008. 
  128. **^** Berman, Jessica (November 27, 2006). "Researchers Uncover Colon Cancer Stem Cells". Voice of America. Archived from the original on January 10, 2007. Retrieved November 23, 2008. 
  129. **^** Jenkins, D. J.; et al. (1981). "Glycemic index of foods: a physiological basis for carbohydrate exchange". _American Journal of Clinical Nutrition_. **34** (3): 362–366. ISSN 0002-9165. PMID 6259925.  
  130. **^** "Dr. Alan Brown, Pediatrician, 73, One of Developers of Pablum Is Dead". _The New York Times_. September 9, 1960.   `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  131. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Pearce, Jeremy (March 31, 2005). "Dr. Wilfred G. Bigelow, 91, A Pioneer in Heart Surgery". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  March 21, 2009. 
  132. **^** Altman, Lawrence K. (May 2, 1999). "New Direction for Transplants Raises Hopes and Questions". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  November 23, 2008. 
  133. **^** "Understanding the cell cycle" (PDF). Lasker Foundation. October 1998. Retrieved February 10, 2010. 
  134. **^** Strathdee, C.A.; Gavish, H.; Shannon, W.; Buchwald, M. (1992). "Cloning of cDNAs for Fanconi's anemia by functional complementation". _Nature_. **356** (6372): 763–767. Bibcode:1992Natur.356..763S. doi:10.1038/356763a0. PMID 1574115.  
  135. **^** "Oliver Smithies autobiography". Nobel Foundation. October 8, 2007. Retrieved  November 22, 2008. 
  136. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Kleiner, Kurt (May 8, 2008). "Toronto Rising" (PDF). _Nature_. **453** (7192): 252–253. doi:10.1038/nj7192-252a. ISSN 1476-4687. PMID 18561361. Retrieved  July 6, 2009. 
  137. **^** El Akkad, Omar (June 20, 2009). "Canada's monster computer roars to life". _Globe and Mail_. Canada. Retrieved  July 6, 2009. 
  138. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Football 2008 Media Guide" (PDF). University of Toronto Varsity Blues. 2008. Retrieved December 13, 2008. 
  139. **^** Rebecca Green (1990-10-09). "College Songs and Songbooks". Thecanadianencyclopedia.com. Retrieved 2012-11-16. 
  140. **^** "Canada sets the international standard". _IFAF Junior World Championship_. USA Football. 2008. Retrieved  December 13, 2008. 
  141. **^** "Canadian Football Timelines (1860–present)". Football Canada. 2008. Archived from the original on March 29, 2008. Retrieved  December 13, 2008. 
  142. **^** Cheney, Peter (September 13, 2008). "Varsity Blues can't get no respect". _Globe and Mail_. Canada. Retrieved  December 13, 2008. 
  143. **^** "Varsity Blues topple Waterloo for first win since 2001". _Globe and Mail_. Canada. September 2, 2008. Retrieved  December 13, 2008. 
  144. **^** Ralph, Dan (October 13, 2007). "Varsity Blues set futility mark". _Globe and Mail_. Canada. Retrieved  December 13, 2008. 
  145. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Varsity Blues Men's Hockey 2008–2009" (PDF). University of Toronto Faculty of Physical Education and Health. 2008. Retrieved December 21, 2008. 
  146. **^** "Smythe, Conn biography". _Legends of Hockey_. Hockey Hall of Fame. 2008. Retrieved  December 21, 2008. 
  147. **^** "Varsity Blues Men's Basketball 2008–2009" (PDF). University of Toronto Faculty of Physical Education and Health. 2008. Retrieved December 21, 2008. 
  148. **^** "CIS Swimming Championship History". Canadian Interuniversity Sport. 2008. Retrieved  December 21, 2008. 
  149. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Okens, Patrick (1999). "Blues Before Sunrise: Rowing at the University of Toronto". University of Toronto Graduate Department of History.  `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  150. **^** McGregor, Nancy; Wardrop, Patricia; Winters, Kenneth. "Hart House". _The Canadian Encyclopedia_. Historica Foundation of Canada.  
  151. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Faught, Brad (1999). "The House Is Where the Heart Is". _University of Toronto Magazine_ (Autumn 1999). Retrieved  February 28, 2009. 
  152. **^** Brown, Gord (12 November 2009). "Hart House Hair clips along for 90 years". _the newspaper_. Retrieved  15 November 2012. 
  153. **^** "The Founders' Prayer". Hart House. Retrieved  February 28, 2009.  "... discover within its walls true education that is to be found within good fellowship, in friendly disputation and debate, in the conversation of wise and earnest men, in music, pictures and the play, in the casual book, in sports and games and the mastery of the body".
  154. **^** "Willard Straight Hall Student Union". Office of the Dean of Students, Cornell University. 2009. Retrieved  February 28, 2009. As one of the United States first college unions, this Gothic structure was modeled after Hart House at the University of Toronto. 
  155. **^** "Question 9". _Dear Uncle Ezra_. Cornell University. Retrieved  February 28, 2009. The room itself is modeled after the University of Toronto's Hart House, the student union at U of T. The Memorial Room is a smaller version of the Great Hall in Hart House, which is about 3 times the size of the Straight and includes a large wing devoted to athletics. 
  156. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Webb, Margaret (2003). "Fighting Words". _University of Toronto Magazine_ (Summer 2003). Retrieved  February 28, 2009. 
  157. **^** Flynn, Colm (2006). "Dublin Worlds 2006". _World Debate Website_. Retrieved  September 24, 2007. 
  158. **^** "UTMUN". University of Toronto Model United Nations. Retrieved  April 28, 2011. 
  159. **^** "United Nations Society". United Nations Society. Retrieved  March 11, 2010. 
  160. **^** Weinstock, Ruth (July 16, 2006). "U of T Formula SAE team races to international victory". University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. Archived from the original on September 22, 2007. Retrieved September 24, 2007. 
  161. **^** "Breaking New Ground". _The History of Zeta Psi_. Zeta Psi Fraternity of North America. 2007. Retrieved  February 28, 2009. 
  162. **^** "Directory of Fraternities and Sororities". Canadians Go Greek!. Retrieved  February 28, 2009. 
  163. **^** "Delta Phi Nu Toronto".  
  164. **^** Banham, Martin (1995). _The Cambridge Guide to Theatre_. Cambridge University Press. p. 161\. ISBN 0-521-43437-8.  
  165. **^** Londré, Felicia Hardison; Watermeier, Daniel J. (1998). _The History of North American Theater_. Continuum International Publishing Group. p.  353\. ISBN 978-0-8264-1079-5. 
  166. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "What university theatre was the centre of the cultural universe (okay, in Toronto)?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved February 24, 2009. [ _dead link_ ]
  167. **^** "Internuts". _Daffydil 2009_. University of Toronto Faculty of Medicine. 2009. Retrieved  February 25, 2009. 
  168. **^** "Kicks for free: bargain activities". _Toronto Life_. Toronto: St. Joseph Communications. March 2003. ISSN 0049-4194.  
  169. **^** "Rupert M. K. Schieder 1915–2008". _Globe and Mail_. Canada. September 5, 2008.   `|access-date=` requires `|url=` (help)
  170. **^** "Sunday Concert". Hart House Music Committee. 2008. Retrieved  February 25, 2009. 
  171. **^** "What made the "blood fairly boil" in U of T student and future prime minister William Lyon Mackenzie King in 1895?". _History Q & A_. University of Toronto Department of Public Affairs. 2002. Retrieved September 24, 2007. [ _dead link_ ]
  172. **^** Marshall, David B. (2000). "Dale, William". _Dictionary of Canadian Biography_. Retrieved  February 28, 2009. 
  173. **^** Bébout, Rick (January 2000). "Conception & birth". _On the Origins of the Body Politic_. Retrieved  February 28, 2009. 
  174. **^** "Engineering, Music, and Phys. Ed. students". Student Housing Service, University of Toronto. 2008. Retrieved  March 29, 2009. 
  175. **^** "The Residence Guarantee". Student Housing Service, University of Toronto. 2008. Retrieved  March 29, 2009. 
  176. **^** Ley, David (1996). _The New Middle Class and the Remaking of the Central City_. Oxford University Press. p. 182\. ISBN 0-19-823292-6.  
  177. **^** Schackner, Bill (July 8, 2007). "For collegians in Canada, drinking is no big thing". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  March 29, 2009. 
  178. **^** "Enrolment Report 2016-17" (PDF). University of Toronto Planning and Budget Office. 8 February 2017. Retrieved 29 October 2017. 
  179. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Xuelun Liang (2012). "Facts & Figures 2012" (PDF). University of Toronto. Retrieved 29 October 2017. 
  180. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Common University Data Ontario 2015". University of Toronto. 2015. Retrieved  29 October 2017. 
  181. **^** "University of Toronto Alumni - Blake C Goldring". _alumni.utoronto.ca_. University of Toronto. Retrieved  20 June 2016. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Bissell, Claude T. (1974). _Halfway up Parnassus: A Personal Account of the University of Toronto_. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-8020-2172-7.
  * Ford, Ann Rochon. (1985). _A Path Not Strewn with Roses_. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-8020-3999-5.
  * Friedland, Martin L. (2002). _The University of Toronto: A History_. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-8020-4429-8.
  * Levi, Charles Morden. (2003). _Comings and Goings_. McGill-Queen's University Press. ISBN 0-7735-2442-8.
  * McKillop, A. Brian. (1994). _Matters of Mind_. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-8020-7216-X.
  * Slater, John G. (2005). _Minerva's Aviary: Philosophy at Toronto_. University of Toronto Press. ISBN 0-8020-3870-0.
  * Wallace, W. Stewart. _A History of the University of Toronto, 1827–1927._ University of Toronto Press, 1927.

##  External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**University of Toronto**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Toronto portal
  * University portal

  * Official website
  * Heritage University of Toronto – U of T's ongoing history in images, text and rich media

  * v
  * t
  * e

University of Toronto  
  
---  
Colleges |

  * Emmanuel
  * Innis
  * Knox
  * Massey
  * New
  * Regis
  * St. Michael's
  * Trinity
  * University
  * Victoria
  * Woodsworth
  * Wycliffe

|  
  
Academics |

  * Faculty of Applied Science and Engineering
  * Faculty of Architecture, Landscape and Design
  * Faculty of Arts and Science
  * Munk School of Global Affairs
  * Dalla Lana School of Public Health
  * Faculty of Dentistry
  * Faculty of Information
  * Faculty of Law
  * Faculty of Medicine
  * Faculty of Music
  * Faculty of Pharmacy
  * Ontario Institute for Studies in Education
  * Rotman School of Management
  * Toronto School of Theology

  
  
Research |

  * Libraries
  * Institute for Aerospace Studies
  * Institute of Biomaterials and Biomedical Engineering
  * Koffler Scientific Reserve
  * Munk School of Global Affairs
  * Pontifical Institute of Mediaeval Studies
  * School of Public Policy and Governance
  * Fields Institute
  * Canadian Institute for Theoretical Astrophysics
  * Dunlap Institute
  * University Health Network
  * Institute of Child Study
  * Joint Centre for Bioethics
  * Mowat Centre
  * SciNet Consortium
  * Press
  * Schools

  
  
Places |

  * Annesley Hall
  * Convocation Hall
  * Graduate House
  * Hart House
  * Newman Centre
  * Pan Am / Parapan Am Fields
  * Philosopher's Walk
  * President's Estate
  * Queen's Park
  * Robarts Library
  * Soldiers' Tower
  * 1 Spadina Crescent
  * Stewart Observatory
  * Toronto Pan Am Sports Centre
  * Varsity Arena
  * Varsity Stadium

  
  
Culture |

  * Coat of arms
  * People
  * Students' Union
  * _The Varsity_
  * _The Newspaper_
  * _The Medium_
  * _The Underground_
  * Massey Lectures
  * Watts Lectures
  * CIUT-FM
  * Hart House Theatre
  * _Hart House Review_
  * Varsity Blues
    * Men's ice hockey
    * Women's ice hockey
    * Rowing Club
    * Football
  * Jennings Cup
  * Blue Sky Solar Racing
  * Toronto School
  * Karate Club

  
  
     University of Toronto Scarborough
    University of Toronto Mississauga  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

U15 universities  
  
---  
  
  * Alberta
  * UBC
  * Calgary
  * Dalhousie
  * Laval
  * Manitoba
  * McGill
  * McMaster
  * Montréal
  * Ottawa
  * Queen's
  * Saskatchewan
  * Toronto
  * Waterloo
  * Western Ontario

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Post-secondary education in Ontario  
  
---  
  
|

Degree-granting institutions  
  
---  
Public universities[1] |

  * Algoma
  * Brock
  * Carleton
  * Guelph
  * Lakehead
  * Laurentian
  * Laurier
  * McMaster
  * Nipissing
  * OCADU
  * Ottawa
  * Queen's
  * RMC
  * Ryerson
  * Toronto
  * Trent
  * UOIT
  * Waterloo
  * Western
  * Windsor
  * York

  
  
Private universities[2] |

  * Baptist Bible College Canada
  * Canada Christian
  * Canadian Reformed Seminary
  * Emmanuel
  * FaithWay Baptist
  * Great Lakes
  * Heritage
  * Institute for Advanced Judaic Studies
  * Institute for Christian Studies
  * Maimonides
  * Master's
  * Redeemer
  * St. Philip's
  * Talpiot
  * Toronto Baptist
  * Tyndale
  * Yeshivas Ner Yisroel

  
  
All above institutions are either established through an Act of the
Legislative Assembly or through a Royal Charter  
  
Degree programs offered  
under Ministerial Consent |

  * Adler School of Professional Psychology
  * CMCC
  * RCC

  
  
Affiliated schools |

  * Assumption
  * Brescia
  * Canterbury
  * Conrad Grebel
  * Dominican
  * Hearst
  * Huntington
  * Huron
  * Iona
  * King's
  * Renison
  * Sudbury
  * St. Jerome's
  * St. Paul's
  * Thorneloe

  
  
|

Community colleges  
  
---  
Colleges of Applied Arts and Technology |

  * Algonquin†
  * Boréal
  * Cambrian†
  * Canadore
  * Centennial†
  * Confederation†
  * Durham
  * Fanshawe†
  * Fleming†
  * George Brown†
  * La Cité†
  * Lambton†
  * Loyalist†
  * Mohawk†
  * Niagara†
  * Northern
  * St. Clair†
  * St. Lawrence†
  * Sault
  * Seneca†

  
  
Institutes of Technology and Advanced Learning |

  * Conestoga†
  * Humber†
  * Sheridan†

  
  
Institutes of Advanced Studies |

  * Georgian†

  
  
†Degree programs offered  
  
|

Other recognized institutions  
  
---  
Specialist institutions |

  * Michener

  
  
Affiliated colleges |

  * Assumption
  * Brescia
  * Canterbury
  * Conrad Grebel
  * Hearst
  * Huron
  * Huntington
  * Iona
  * King's
  * PIMS
  * Renison
  * St. Jerome's
  * St. Paul's
  * Thorneloe

  
  
|

Aboriginal institutes  
  
---  
  
  * Anishinabek
  * First Nations Technical
  * Kenjgewin Teg
  * Iohahi:io Akwesasne
  * Negahneewin
  * Ogwehoweh
  * Oshki-Pimache-O-Win
  * Seven Generations
  * Shingwauk Kinoomaage Gamig
  * Six Nations Polytechnic

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Public institutions and infrastructure in Toronto  
  
---  
Libraries and archives |

  * Archives of Ontario
  * City of Toronto Archives
  * Robarts Library
  * Toronto Reference Library
  * North York Central Library
  * Ryerson Image Centre

  
  
University and Colleges |

  * York University
  * University of Toronto
  * Glendon College
  * University of Toronto Scarborough
  * OCAD University
  * The Royal Conservatory of Music
  * Ryerson University

  
  
Institutional |

  * City Hall
  * East York Civic Centre
  * Etobicoke Civic Centre
  * North York Civic Centre
  * Scarborough Civic Centre
  * York Civic Centre
  * Convention Centre
  * Osgoode Hall

  
  
Infrastructure |

  * Billy Bishop Toronto City Airport
  * Hogg's Hollow Bridge
  * Leaside Bridge
  * Prince Edward Viaduct
  * R. C. Harris Water Treatment Plant
  * WindShare Wind Turbine

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 130333233
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 2157 2938
  * GND: 39300-9
  * SUDOC: 026432188
  * BNF: cb11868078s (data)

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=University_of_Toronto&oldid=816712139"

Categories:

  * University of Toronto
  * Organizations based in Canada with royal patronage
  * Educational institutions established in 1827
  * Forestry education
  * Forestry in Canada
  * 1827 establishments in Upper Canada

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from September 2010
  * Articles with dead external links from September 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list
  * CS1 errors: dates
  * CS1 maint: Multiple names: authors list
  * Pages using citations with accessdate and no URL
  * Use mdy dates from November 2012
  * Articles containing Latin-language text
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Articles with dead external links from November 2017
  * Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
  * Good articles
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Català
  * Cebuano
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Galego
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Basa Jawa
  * Kaszëbsczi
  * Қазақша
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * മലയാളം
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * Oʻzbekcha/ўзбекча
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Simple English
  * Slovenščina
  * کوردی
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 23 December 2017, at 04:56.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

