

# University of Warwick

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

University of Warwick  
---  
Motto | _Mens agitat molem_ (Latin)  
  
Motto in English

| Mind moves matter  
Type | Public research university  
Established | 1965  
Endowment | £4.8 million (as of 31 July 2017)[1]  
Budget | £576.2 million (2016-17)[1]  
Chancellor | Catherine Ashton  
Vice-Chancellor | Stuart Croft  
  
Administrative staff

| 6,294 incl. 2,433 academics/researchers[2]  
Students | 25,615[2]  
Undergraduates | 14,967[2]  
Postgraduates | 9,398[2]  
Location | Coventry, England  
Coordinates: 52°22′48.29″N 1°33′42.95″W﻿ / ﻿52.3800806°N 1.5619306°W﻿ /
52.3800806; -1.5619306  
Colours |  |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |   |  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
Affiliations |

List

  * AACSB  
Association of Commonwealth Universities  
Association of MBAs  
EQUIS  
European University Association  
Universities UK  
Russell Group  
M5 Universities

  
  
Website | warwick.ac.uk  
  
The **University of Warwick** (/ ˈwɒrɪk/) is a plate glass research university
in Coventry, England. It was founded in 1965 as part of a government
initiative to expand access to higher education. Warwick Business School was
established in 1967 and Warwick Medical School was opened in 2000. Warwick
merged with Coventry College of Education in 1979 and Horticulture Research
International in 2004.

Warwick is primarily based on a 290 hectare campus on the outskirts of
Coventry with a satellite campus in Wellesbourne and a London base at the
Shard in central London.[3][4][5][6] It is organised into four faculties—Arts,
Medicine, Science and Social Sciences—within which there are 32 departments.
Warwick has around 25,600 full-time students and 2,400 academic and research
staff[2] and had a consolidated income of £591.0 million in 2016/17, of which
£120.3 million was from research grants and contracts.[1] Warwick Arts Centre,
a multi-venue arts complex in the university's main campus, is the largest
venue of its kind in the UK outside London.

Warwick consistently ranks in the top ten of all major domestic rankings of
British universities[ _citation needed_ ]. It was ranked 7th in the UK amongst
multi-faculty institutions for the quality (GPA) of its research[7] and 14th
for its Research Power in the 2014 Research Excellence Framework.[8] In
October 2016, the university gave offers of admission to 5 in 6 undergraduate
applicants,[9] with an intake of 5,026 undergraduates out of 37,268 applicants
yielding 7.4 applicants per place.[10] Warwick has been ranked as the world's
20th best university based on employer reputation.[11]

Warwick is a member of AACSB, the Association of Commonwealth Universities,
the Association of MBAs, EQUIS, the European University Association, the
Midlands Innovation group, the Russell Group and Universities UK. It is the
only European member of the Center for Urban Science and Progress, a
collaboration with New York University. The university has extensive
commercial activities, including the University of Warwick Science Park and
Warwick Manufacturing Group.

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Twentieth century
    * 1.2 Twenty-first century
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 Main campus
      * 2.1.1 Warwick Arts Centre
      * 2.1.2 University House
      * 2.1.3 White Koan
      * 2.1.4 Sports facilities
    * 2.2 Other sites
    * 2.3 Planned developments
  * 3 Organisation and administration
    * 3.1 Faculties and departments
    * 3.2 Finances
    * 3.3 Coat of arms
  * 4 Academics
    * 4.1 Admissions
    * 4.2 International partnerships
    * 4.3 Library
    * 4.4 Awards
    * 4.5 Rankings and reputation
  * 5 Research
    * 5.1 Commercial focus
  * 6 Student life
    * 6.1 Students' Union
    * 6.2 Student events
    * 6.3 Student media
    * 6.4 University Challenge
    * 6.5 Student housing
  * 7 Notable people
  * 8 References
  * 9 External links

## History[edit]

Warwick Arts Centre at night

### Twentieth century[edit]

The idea for a university in Warwickshire was first mooted shortly after the
Second World War, although it was not founded for a further two decades. A
partnership of the city and county councils ultimately provided the impetus
for the university to be established on a 400-acre (1.6 km2) site jointly
granted by the two authorities.[12] There was some discussion between local
sponsors from both the city and county over whether it should be named after
Coventry or Warwickshire.[12] The name "University of Warwick" was adopted,
even though the County Town of Warwick itself lies some 8 miles (13 km) to its
southwest and Coventry's city centre is only 3.5 miles (5.6 km) northeast of
the campus.[13][14][15][16] The establishment of the University of Warwick was
given approval by the government in 1961 and received its Royal Charter of
Incorporation in 1965. Since then, the university has incorporated the former
Coventry College of Education in 1979 and has extended its land holdings by
the continuing purchase of adjoining farm land. The university also benefited
from a substantial donation from the family of Jack Martin, which enabled the
construction of the Warwick Arts Centre.

The university initially admitted a small intake of graduate students in 1964
and took its first 450 undergraduates in October 1965. Since its establishment
Warwick has expanded its grounds to 721 acres (2.9 km2) with many modern
buildings and academic facilities, lakes, and woodlands. In the 1960s and
1970s, Warwick had a reputation as a politically radical institution.[17] More
recently, the university was seen as a favoured institution of the Labour
government which was in power from 1997 to 2010.[18][19] It was academic
partner for a number of flagship Government schemes including the National
Academy for Gifted and Talented Youth and the NHS University (now defunct).
Tony Blair described Warwick as "a beacon among British universities for its
dynamism, quality and entrepreneurial zeal".[18]

Under Vice-Chancellor, Lord Butterworth, Warwick was one of the first UK
universities to adopt a business approach to higher education, develop close
links with the business community and exploit the commercial value of its
research. In a 2012 study by Virgin Media Business, Warwick was described as
the most "digitally-savvy" UK university.[6] These tendencies were critiqued
by British historian and then-Warwick lecturer, E. P. Thompson, in his 1970
edited book _Warwick University Ltd._. This book was published shortly after
two large occupations of the administrative buildings on campus in February
1970, when political files on students and staff were uncovered. One student
was rejected at the personal request of Lord Butterworth after the student's
head teacher tipped the University off about the student's political
activities.[20]

The Leicester Warwick Medical School, a new medical school based jointly at
Warwick and Leicester University, opened in September 2000.[21]

On the recommendation of Tony Blair, Bill Clinton chose Warwick as the venue
for his last major foreign policy address as US President in December 2000.
Sandy Berger, Clinton’s National Security Advisor, explaining the decision in
his Press Briefing on 7 December 2000, said that: "Warwick is one of Britain's
newest and finest research universities, singled out by Prime Minister Blair
as a model both of academic excellence and independence from the
government."[22]

### Twenty-first century[edit]

Ian Davenport's _Everything_ (2004) in the Warwick Mathematics Institute.[23]

In February 2001, IBM donated a new S/390 computer and software worth £2
million to Warwick, to form part of a "Grid" enabling users to remotely share
computing power.[24] In April 2004 Warwick merged with the Wellesbourne and
Kirton sites of Horticulture Research International.[25] In July 2004 Warwick
was the location for an important agreement between the Labour Party and the
Trade Unions on Labour policy and trade union law, which has subsequently
become known as the "Warwick Agreement".[26]

In June 2006 the new University Hospital Coventry opened, including a 102,000
sq ft (9,500 m2) university clinical sciences building.[27] Warwick Medical
School was granted independent degree-awarding status in 2007, and the
School's partnership with the University of Leicester was dissolved in the
same year.[28][29] In February 2010, Lord Bhattacharyya, director and founder
of the WMG unit at Warwick, made a £1 million donation to the university to
support science grants and awards.[30][31]

In February 2012 Warwick and Melbourne-based Monash University announced the
formation of a strategic partnership, including the creation of 10 joint
senior academic posts, new dual master's and joint doctoral degrees, and co-
ordination of research programmes.[32] In March 2012 Warwick and Queen Mary,
University of London announced the creation of a strategic partnership,
including research collaboration, joint teaching of English, history and
computer science undergraduates, and the creation of eight joint post-doctoral
research fellowships.[33][34]

In April 2012 it was announced that Warwick would be the only European
university participating in the Center for Urban Science and Progress, an
applied science research institute to be based in New York consisting of an
international consortium of universities and technology companies led by New
York University and NYU-Poly.[35] In August 2012, Warwick and five other
Midlands-based research-intensive universities— Aston University, the
University of Birmingham, the University of Leicester, Loughborough University
and the University of Nottingham—formed the M5 Group, a regional bloc intended
to maximise the member institutions' research income and enable closer
collaboration.[36]

In September 2013 it was announced that a new National Automotive Innovation
Centre would be built by WMG at Warwick's main campus at a cost of £100
million, with £50 million to be contributed by Jaguar Land Rover and £30
million by Tata Motors.[37][38]

In July 2014, the government announced that Warwick would be the host for the
£1 billion Advanced Propulsion Centre, a joint venture between the Automotive
Council and industry. The ten-year programme intends to position the
university and the UK as leaders in the field of research into the next
generation of automotive technology.[ _citation needed_ ]

On December 3, 2014, Warwick was embroiled in controversy after West Midlands
police were called to a free education sit-in, violently breaking it up with
CS gas and Tasers (the latter of which were deployed but not used).[39] Viral
videos of the violence led to petitions and protests against the police and
University actions. A 1,000-strong demonstration the next day led to an 8-day
occupation of the Rootes building, which ended after the University took out a
high court injunction against all occupations on campus.

## Campus[edit]

Warwick is located on the outskirts of Coventry, 3.4 mi (5.5 km) southwest of
the city centre (and not in the town of Warwick as its name suggests). The
university's main site comprises three contiguous campuses, all within walking
distance of each other. The university also owns a site in Wellesbourne,
acquired in 2004 when it merged with Horticulture Research International.

### Main campus[edit]

L to R: International Manufacturing Centre (IMC), Department of Computer
Science (DCS), Zeeman Building (Maths and Statistics)

The main Warwick campus occupies a 710 acres (2.88 km2) site straddling the
boundary between the City of Coventry and the County of Warwickshire. The
original buildings of the campus are in contemporary 1960s architecture, a
style chosen in deliberate contrast to the medieval, classical, or "red brick"
character of older British universities. The campus contains all of the main
student amenities, all but four of the student halls of residence, and the
Students' Union. Other amenities include a grocery store, pharmacy, two bank
branches (Barclays and Santander), a hair salon, a post office, a copy shop,
and an STA Travel agency. A Tesco superstore, which is open 24 hours, is
located at the nearby Cannon Park shopping centre.

#### Warwick Arts Centre[edit]

Main article: Warwick Arts Centre

The Warwick Arts Centre is a multi-venue arts complex situated at the centre
of Warwick's main campus. It attracts around 300,000 visitors a year to over
3,000 individual events spanning contemporary and classical music, drama,
dance, comedy, films and visual art. The centre comprises six principal
spaces: the Butterworth Hall, a 1,500-seat concert hall; a 550-seat theatre; a
180-seat theatre studio; a 220-seat cinema; the Mead Gallery, an art gallery;
and the Music Centre, with practice rooms, and an ensemble rehearsal room
where music societies and groups can rehearse. In addition the site includes
the university bookshop, hospitality suites, a restaurant, cafe, shops, and
two bars.

#### University House[edit]

In 2003 Warwick acquired the former headquarters of National Grid plc, which
it converted into an administration building renamed University House. There
is a student-run facility called the "Learning Grid" in the building, which
includes two floors of PC clusters, scanners, photocopiers, a reference
library, interactive whiteboards and plasma screens for use by individuals and
for group work.[40]

#### White Koan[edit]

The Koan in front of the Helen Martin Arts Studio

The _White Koan_ is a modern art sculpture by Liliane Lijn which is installed
outside the main entrance to the Warwick Arts Centre.[41][42] The _Koan_ is 6
metres (20  ft) high,[41] white in colour, decorated with elliptical of
fluorescent lights and is rotated by an electric motor whilst illuminated. It
is intended to represent the Buddhist quest for questions without answers, the
Kōan. The _Koan_ was made in 1971 as part of the Peter Stuyvesant Foundation
City Sculpture Project and was originally sited in Plymouth; it moved to the
Hayward Gallery in London before being purchased by Warwick in 1972.[41]

####  Sports facilities[edit]

The main campus hosts a large sports centre. In 2013, the university invested
£1.5 million in developing the centre, installing a state-of-the-art gym,
alongside other facilities including a 25-metre six-lane swimming pool, squash
courts, an indoor rock climbing facility, and two sports halls. Elsewhere on
campus are a number of other sports halls, a £2.5 million 4-court indoor
tennis centre with floodlit outdoor courts, a 400 m athletics track, multi-
purpose outdoor surfaces, and over 60 acres of outdoor playing fields,
including a football pitch and cricket grounds. Sports facilities are being
constantly expanded, following the commencement of _Warwick Sport_ , a 2005
joint venture between the university and the Students' Union. Most of the
university's sports facilities are open to the general public.

Warwick was an official training venue for the London 2012 Olympics. During
the Games, some football matches were played at the nearby Ricoh Arena, home
of Coventry City Football Club, and Warwick provided training and residential
facilities for the Olympic teams.[43]

### Other sites[edit]

The Shard, where WBS houses its London campus

Other Warwick sites include:

  * The Gibbet Hill Campus, located contiguous to the main campus; home to the department of Life Sciences and the pre-clinical activities of Warwick Medical School.
  * The Westwood Campus, located contiguous to the main campus; home to the Centre for Professional Education, Centre for Lifelong Learning, the Arden House conference centre, an indoor tennis centre, a running track and some postgraduate facilities and student residences.
  * The University of Warwick Science Park.
  * University Hospital Coventry, in Walsgrave on Sowe area and home to the Clinical Sciences Building of the medical school.
  * Warwick Horticulture Research International Research & Conference Centre, located in Wellesbourne, Warwickshire.
  * The Shard skyscraper, in the city of London, houses Warwick Business School's metropolitan campus where the MSc in Finance, MSc in HR, and the Executive MBA are taught.[44]

### Planned developments[edit]

In November 2005, Warwick announced its vision for the year 2020 and outlined
proposals for how it would like to develop its campus over the next 15 years.[
_citation needed_ ] The proposals built upon recent construction activity
including a new Mathematics and Statistics Building, a new Computer Science
Building, new Business School buildings, the Digital Laboratory, the new
Heronbank Residences and an expanded Sports Centre. The proposals envisage a
shift in the "centre of gravity" of the campus away from the Students' Union
towards University House and a proposed "Academic Square" located around the
new maths and computer science buildings.

Forthcoming projects include an inter-disciplinary biosciences research
facility; a £25 million upgrade to Warwick Business School; and the National
Automotive Innovation Campus, a new £92 million venture funded by Jaguar Land
Rover and the UK government. The NAIC's purpose is to research and develop
novel technologies to reduce dependency on fossil fuels and to reduce CO2
emissions. The new 30,000 sq ft (2,800 m2) campus will provide research
opportunities for postgraduates from 2016 onwards. The campus has been dubbed
a ‘brain trust’ and will be used to pioneer the green and high-tech sports and
luxury cars of tomorrow, doubling the size of Jaguar’s research team.[45]

## Organisation and administration[edit]

University House

Warwick Business School

Warwick is governed by three formal bodies: the Court, Council and the Senate.
In addition to these, a Steering Committee provide strategic leadership in
between meetings of the formal bodies. Faculties are overseen by Faculty
Boards which report to the Senate.[46] The Principal Officers of the
university have responsibility for day-to-day operations of the
University.[47]

### Faculties and departments[edit]

Warwick's academic activities are organised into the following faculties and
departments:[48]

  * Faculty of Arts 
    * Classics and Ancient History
    * Comparative American Studies
    * English and Comparative Literary Studies
    * Film and Television Studies
    * History
    * History of Art
    * School of Modern Languages and Cultures, comprising: 
      * French Studies
      * Hispanic Studies
      * German Studies
      * Italian Studies
      * The Language Centre
    * Theatre Studies
  * Faculty of Medicine 
    * Warwick Medical School
    * Education and Development Unit
  * Faculty of Science 
    * Chemistry
    * Computer Science
    * Engineering
    * Life Sciences
    * Mathematics
    * Physics
    * Psychology
    * Statistics
    * WMG
  * Faculty of Social Sciences 
    * Applied Linguistics
    * Economics
    * Education
    * Health and Social Studies
    * Law
    * Philosophy
    * Politics and International Studies
    * Sociology
    * Warwick Business School
    * Women and Gender

### Finances[edit]

In the financial year ended 31 July 2014, Warwick had a total income,
including share of joint ventures, of £480.5 million (2012/13 - £459.6
million) and total expenditure of £468.7 million (2012/13 - £440.5
million).[1] Key sources of income included £213.2 million from academic fees
and support grants (2012/13 - £190.0 million), £90.1 million from research
grants and contracts (2012/13 - £83.7 miilion), £64.7 million from funding
council grants (2012/13 - £77.4 miilion) and £1.6 million from endowment and
investment income (2012/13 - £2.1 million).[1] During the 2013/14 financial
year Warwick had a capital expenditure of £49.7 million (2012/13 - £35.5
million).[1] At year end Warwick had endowment assets of £8.6 million (2012/13
- £8.1 million) and total net assets of £327.1 million (2012/13 - £312.3
million).[1]

### Coat of arms[edit]

Warwick's coat of arms depicts atoms of two isotopes of lithium, a DNA helix
to represent science and also the _Bear and Ragged Staff_ , historically
associated with Warwickshire (and previously the Earls of Warwick) and the
Elephant and Castle of Coventry. The bear is not chained in the current
depiction of the university's coat of arms, although it had been in its
original grant of Letters Patent by the College of Arms.[49]

## Academics[edit]

In October 2014, Warwick had 23,570 students, with around two fifths being
postgraduates.[2] About 27% of the student body comes from overseas[2] and
over 114 countries are represented on the campus[ _citation needed_ ]. The
university has 29 academic departments and over 40 research centres and
institutes, in four faculties: arts, medicine, science and social sciences.
There were 1,842 academic and research staff in October 2014.[2]

### Admissions[edit]

UCAS Admission Statistics | 2016 | 2015 | 2014 | 2013 | 2012  
---|---|---|---|---|---  
**Applications**[50] |  36,760 | 33,565 | 29,845 | 27,820 | 28,480  
**Offer Rate (%)**[9] |  83.2 | 84.3 | 79.9 | 75.7 | 67.3  
**Enrols**[51] |  5,070 | 4,810 | 4,245 | 4,305 | 3,830  
**Yield (%)** |  16.6 | 17.0 | 17.8 | 20.4 | 20.0  
**Applicant/Enrolled Ratio** |  7.25 | 6.98 | 7.03 | 6.46 | 7.44  
**Average Entry Tariff**[52] |  n/a | 478 | 485 | 480 | 509  
  
Warwick Medical School

A Freedom of Information request in 2015 revealed that the university received
25,071 undergraduate applications and made 18,380 offers in 2014-15. This
yielded an acceptance rate of 15.8% and an offer rate of 73.3%. Particular
competitive courses include Law, Economics and courses within the Warwick
Business School which yielded offer rates of 53.8%, 57.2% and 58.9%
respectively.[53] Warwick students also average top A-Level grades with new
entrants in 2015 amassing an average of 478 UCAS points, the equivalent of
AAAaa at A-level - the 13th highest in the country.[54] Most recently, the
university gives offers of admission to 84.3% of its applicants, the 5th
highest amongst the Russell Group.[55]

For 2017 entry, the university was one of only a few mainstream universities
(along with Cambridge, Imperial College, LSE, Oxford, St Andrews, and UCL) to
have no courses available in Clearing.[56] Warwick charges British and EU
undergraduate students tuition fees of £9,250 per year.[57]

### International partnerships[edit]

Warwick students can study abroad for a semester or a year and may obtain a
double degree (degrees awarded by both partners). International partners
include Columbia University, UC Berkeley and Sciences Po Paris.

### Library[edit]

The Modern Records Centre at night

Warwick is a member of Nereus, the network of the libraries of the leading
institutions in economics research - including Columbia, Oxford, the LSE,
Paris-Dauphine and Sciences Po Paris.

The main university library is located in the middle of the main campus. It
houses approximately 1,265,000 books[58] and over 13 km of archives and
manuscripts. The main library has recently been remodelled and now houses new
services to support Research and Teaching practice and collaboration between
departments. The Wolfson Research Exchange opened in October 2008 and provides
collaboration spaces (both physical and virtual), seminar rooms, conference
facilities and study areas for Postgraduate Research students. The Teaching
Grid, which opened in 2008, is a flexible space which allows teaching staff to
try out new technologies and techniques. Adjacent to the main library building
is the Modern Records Centre, a sizeable archive collection, including the
UK's largest industrial relations collection. The Central Library Service also
runs the Learning Grids, reference libraries which are accompanied by
technology rich study space, providing access to video conferencing
facilities, smart boards and networked PCs. These are currently based in
University House, the Rootes Building and Leamington Spa Town Hall. The two
learning grids located on Main Campus provide study space for approximately
600 students. In addition, the Central Library Service also operates the
BioMed Grid, a reference library and study space specifically for Life Science
students. An additional study space, The Postgraduate Hub, is also maintained
for use by Postgraduates in Senate House.

In addition to the facilities provided through the main library, several
departments have subject specific collections and study spaces. Notably, these
include Maths and Statistics, Law, Modern languages, Life Sciences,
Philosophy, Engineering, and Sociology.

### Awards[edit]

In 2008 the university launched a new prize, the Warwick Prize for Writing,
worth £50,000. It is defined as "an international cross-disciplinary award
which will be given biennially for an excellent and substantial piece of
writing in the English language, in any genre or form, on a theme that will
change with every award". The inaugural winner of the award was Naomi Klein
for her critically acclaimed book _Shock Doctrine_.

###  Rankings and reputation[edit]

Rankings _ARWU_[59]  
(2017, national) |  10-17  
---|---  
_ARWU_[60]  
(2017, world) |  101-150  
_QS_[61]  
(2018, national) |  10  
_QS_[62]  
(2018, world) |  57  
_THE_[63]  
(2018, national) |  11  
_THE_[64]  
(2018, world) |  91  
_CWTS Leiden_[65]  
(2017, world) |  74  
_Complete_[52]  
(2018, national) |  8  
_The Guardian_[66]  
(2018, national) |  8  
_Times/Sunday Times_[67]  
(2018, national) |  9  
_Teaching Excellence Framework_[68] | _Silver_  
  
Warwick is ranked 48th overall in the 2015/16 QS World University Rankings,
92nd by Academic Ranking of World Universities, and 80th in the _Times Higher
Education World University Rankings_. In the ARWU 2015 Warwick is ranked 42nd
worldwide in the field of social sciences, 51-75 in Sciences and 101-150 in
Engineering. The ARWU also ranks Warwick 13th worldwide for Mathematics, 34th
for Economics and Business, 101-150 for Computer Science and 151-200 for both
Physics and Chemistry. In 2013 was ranked by QS as the world's third best
university under 50 years old.[69] Warwick is ranked 110th in the world (and
13th in the UK) in the 2016 _Round University Ranking_.[70]

Warwick is consistently ranked amongst the top ten in national rankings of
British universities. In _The Guardian_ 2015 rankings it is ranked 6th
overall. Warwick was ranked 7th overall in _The Sunday Times_ 10-year average
(1998–2007) ranking of British universities based on consistent league table
performance,[71] and is a member of the 'Sutton 13' of top ranked Universities
in the UK.[72] Warwick is one of only four universities (along with Cambridge,
Oxford and St Andrews) to have never left the top 10 in one of the three main
domestic rankings between 2008-2017.[73]

In 2017, Warwick was named as the university with the joint second highest
graduate employment rate of any UK university (along with St Andrews), with
97.7 per cent of its graduates in work or further study three and a half years
after graduation.[74] According to the survey by _Times Higher Education_ ,
Warwick is ranked 6th amongst UK universities for value-added university
education in relation to fees (costs).[75] According to a 2012-13 High Fliers
Research survey, Warwick is the _"university targeted by the most top
employers"_ such as Apple Inc., Airbus, BBC, Barclays, the European
Commission, Google, McKinsey & Company, Price Waterhouse Coopers, Rolls-Royce
and many others.[76] However, in another survey, Warwick only placed 23rd in
the UK when recruiters of the UK's major companies were asked to select the
universities from where they most like to source graduates from.[77]

Warwick was declared as _The Times_ and _The Sunday Times_ University of the
Year 2015.[78]

The QS World University Rankings places Warwick's Economics department at 19th
worldwide in its 2013 subject rankings. Further, The Complete University Guide
ranked Warwick's Economics department 1st overall in its latest rankings for
2014.[79] Overall, 17 of the 27 subjects offered by Warwick were ranked within
the top 10 nationally in 2016,[80] with Drama, Dance & Cinematics taking first
place.

## Research[edit]

International Digital Laboratory

In 2013/14 Warwick had a total research income of £90.1 million, of which
£33.9 million was from Research Councils; £25.9 million was from central
government, local authorities and public corporations; £12.7 million was from
the European Union; £7.9 million was from UK industry and commerce; £5.2
million was from UK charitable bodies; £4.0 million was from overseas sources;
and £0.5 million was from other sources.[1]

In the 2014 UK Research Excellence Framework (REF), Warwick was again ranked
7th overall (as 2008) amongst multi-faculty institutions and was the top-
ranked university in the Midlands.[81] Some 87% of the University's academic
staff were rated as being in "world-leading" or "internationally excellent"
departments with top research ratings of 4* or 3*.[81]

In the RAE 2008, 19 of Warwick's departments were ranked in the top 10 by
output in the UK in the assessment,[81] including English, Life Sciences,
Mathematics, Computing, Philosophy, Economics, Chemistry, Politics,
Statistics, Film and TV Studies, Theatre Studies, History, Classics and Law.

Warwick is particularly strong in the areas of decision sciences research
(economics, finance, management, mathematics and statistics). For instance,
researchers of the Warwick Business School have won the highest prize of the
prestigious European Case Clearing House (ECCH: the equivalent of the Oscars
in terms of management research).[82]

Warwick has established a number of stand-alone units to manage and extract
commercial value from its research activities. The four most prominent
examples of these units are University of Warwick Science Park; Warwick HRI;
Warwick Ventures (the technology transfer arm of the University); and WMG.

As a result of these activities, Warwick is the only university in the UK
which generates more of its income through commercial activities than it
receives in Government grants, which has allowed it to invest generously in
facilities and undergo rapid growth. Research is the greatest source of income
for the university, followed by overseas students and Warwick
Accommodation.[83]

### Commercial focus[edit]

Warwick has at times received criticism for being too commercially focused, at
the expense of academic creativity and diversity. The most famous proponent of
this critique was the noted historian E.P. Thompson, who edited and wrote much
of _Warwick University Ltd_ in 1971.[84] The book focuses on the brief student
occupation of the Registry in 1967, and its causes, the files that were
discovered and published, and the subsequent actions of the university,
students and staff.

Nevertheless, with the appointment of Sir Nicholas Scheele as Chancellor in
2002, the university signalled that it intended to continue and expand its
commercial activities. In an interview for the BBC, Scheele said: "I think in
the future, education and industry need to become even more closely linked
than they have been historically. As government funding changes, the
replacement could well come through private funding from companies,
individuals and grant-giving agencies."[85]

## Student life[edit]

Undergraduate student life at Warwick can be broadly divided into two phases.
In the first year, student life revolves around campus and, in particular, the
Students' Union (with its sports clubs, societies, and entertainment
facilities). In subsequent years students typically live off-campus, in
Leamington Spa, or in either the Coventry suburbs of Earlsdon and Canley or
the town of Kenilworth.

### Students' Union[edit]

Main article: University of Warwick Students' Union

The students' union building – SU South

The University of Warwick Students' Union is one of the largest students'
unions in the UK, and currently has over 260 societies and 76 sports clubs
including basketball, rowing and ice hockey. There are new societies every
year, including Jailbreak and more recently the HOMMOUS Society.[86] The Union
has an annual turnover of approximately £6 million, the profit from which is
used to provide services to students and to employ its staff and sabbatical
officers. The Union is divided into two buildings—SUHQ (mainly societies and
administration and Restaurant Xananas) and The Union Building (entertainment
facilities). The Union Building contains a 3-room club venue known as "The
Copper Rooms", CAMRA-accredited "The Dirty Duck" pub, a popular bar called
"The Terrace Bar", Curiositea- a tea shop famous for its hot chocolates, cakes
and vintage atmosphere, The Graduate, a postgraduate social and study space
and The Bread Oven, a design-your-own sandwich shop. The original Union South
building underwent an £11 million refurbishment in Spring 2008, which was
completed in January 2010, and alongside its various outlets provides a pool
room and various society spaces. The Students Union is also home to Refresh
Catering, a bespoke catering provision for Warwick Campus and its surrounding
areas.

The Students Union provides popular events in most of its outlets including
POP!, Skool Dayz, pub quizzes and karaoke nights (the latter two held in The
Dirty Duck) and film nights in Curiositea. The ents team also provide the
Christmas party- which often incorporates reindeer and an ice rink, and the
Summer Party. The Summer Party is an outdoor mini-festival that showcases both
up-and-coming and popular acts alongside funfare rides, games and bars.

The Union has a tradition of hosting up-and-coming bands; recently it has seen
bands such as Ash, Sugababes, Amerie, The Kooks, Reel Big Fish, The Departure,
The Subways, Idlewild, The Rory McKenna Variety Show, Hell is for Heroes, The
Automatic, The Dave Wright Experience, Boy Kill Boy, Amy Winehouse, The
Killers, The Streets, Feeder, and Scouting for Girls.

The Union is a member of the National Union of Students (NUS) and National
Postgraduate Committee (NPC).

### Student events[edit]

Warwick hosts many major student-run events including TEDxWarwick,[87] Warwick
Economics Summit, People & Planet's Go Green Week, Warwick Energy Conference,
Warwick Technology Conference, Warwick Afrofest, Warwick Climate Forum,
Warwick International Aid Forum, Warwick China Summit, Warwick Higher
Education Summit, Beyond the Bottom Line: Warwick Emerge Conference, Warwick
International Development Summit, Warwick Model United Nations, RAG Week,
Warwick Student Arts Festival and the PPE Society Speaker Series. From 2014-16
Warwick hosted the world's only inter-University brass band contest,
UniBrass.[88]

The Warwick Economics Summit is a student-run international forum which
attracts students from universities in 14 different countries, including
Harvard, Princeton, Columbia, MIT, the LSE, the University of Cambridge, and
the University of Oxford. Past speakers have included eminent economists and
three Nobel Laureates, including John Nash, George Akerlof, Eric Maskin,
Alistair Darling, Vince Cable, and Steven Landsburg.[89]

Warwick is also home to the student-run Real Ale Festival, which takes place
annually in the sixth week of second academic term. The festival is organised
and staffed by the Warwick University Real Ale Society. A charity skydiving
weekend, The Great Warwick Jump, was set up by the Skydiving Club in 2008 and
is now the largest charity event at the University,[90] raising £20,274.00 for
charities worldwide in its first year. The second year saw a new British
record for the most tandem jumps in 24 hours with 137 and a total of £57,374
raised for various charities.

### Student media[edit]

Student media at Warwick includes:

  * _The Engineer_ \- the Warwick Engineering Society magazine
  * Radio Warwick (RaW) – student radio station
  * _The Boar_ – award-winning newspaper distributed free across campus every second Wednesday[91]
  * Warwick Student Cinema – shows films on two 35 mm projectors, a 70 mm projector, and a 2K Digital Cinema projector
  * Warwick TV (WTV) - the student television station. Has won multiple National Student Television Awards, and was named Best Society at the University in 2013.
  * _Perspectives_ \- a termly publication of Warwick Politics Society featuring comment and analysis about politics and international affairs.
  * _Obiter Dicta_ \- a biannual publication of Warwick Law Society, including content focused on different areas of law.
  * "Warwick Emerging Markets Magazine" - a termly publication of the society containing articles related to the developing countries
  * _The Hoar_ \- satire and free speech online publishing platform

###  University Challenge[edit]

A team from Warwick won BBC television's University Challenge competition for
the first time in 2007, beating the title-holders University of Manchester in
the final.[92]

### Student housing[edit]

Main article: University of Warwick Halls of Residence

One of the Sherbourne residences

The Warwick campus currently has around 6,300 student bedrooms across a range
of undergraduate and postgraduate residences. All of the residences are self-
catered, and each has residential tutors and a warden.[93] Warwick guarantees
accommodation for all first-year undergraduate students, regardless of their
present address. Many of the university's postgraduate population are also
catered for, with some specific residences available for postgraduate living.
Each residence accommodates a mixture of students both domestic and foreign,
male and female, and, sometimes, undergraduate and postgraduate.

In their second and third years, many students live in one of the surrounding
towns: either Coventry, Kenilworth or Leamington Spa, where they can live in
university-managed accommodation or independently owned residences. The most
popular area of residence is the regency town of Leamington Spa, which was
included in the _Sunday Times_ ' 'Best Places to Live' list.[94]

Since 2011, Warwick has constructed two new halls of residences for the
students. Bluebell, opened in 2011, offers accommodation in flats of 8 people,
with a total of 505 single rooms for first-year undergraduates. The most
recent construction is Sherbourne, which similarly provides 527 ensuite rooms
to first-years.[95]

## Notable people[edit]

See also: List of University of Warwick people and Category:Alumni of the
University of Warwick

Germaine Greer, feminist voice of the mid-20th century

Martin Hairer, Regius Professor of Mathematics

Emmy Award winner Stephen Merchant

Warwick has over 150,000 alumni[96] and an active alumni network.[97] Among
the university's alumni, faculty and researchers are two Nobel Laureates, a
Fields Medallist, and a Turing Award winner, and there are a significant
number of fellows of the British Academy, the Royal Society of Literature, the
Royal Academy of Engineering, and the Royal Society.

In science and engineering people associated with Warwick include; Nobel Prize
in Chemistry (1975) winner Sir John Cornforth who was a Professor at Warwick,
mathematicians Ian Stewart, Sir Christopher Zeeman, David Epstein and Fields
Medallist Martin Hairer, computer scientists Mike Cowlishaw and Leslie
Valiant, and neurologist Oliver Sacks. In arts and the social sciences; Nobel
Laureate Oliver Hart; economist and President of the British Academy Nicholas
Stern, Baron Stern of Brentford, academic and Provost of Worcester College Sir
Jonathan Bate, academic and journalist Germaine Greer, literary critic Susan
Bassnett, historians Sir J.R. Hale and David Arnold, economist Andrew Oswald
and economic historian Robert Skidelsky, Baron Skidelsky.

Former Warwick students active in politics and government include Guðni Th.
Jóhannesson, President of Iceland; Yakubu Gowon, former President of Nigeria;
Sir Gus O'Donnell, former Cabinet Secretary and head of the British Civil
Service; Andrew Haldane, Chief Economist at the Bank of England; David Davis,
Secretary of State for Exiting the European Union and former Shadow Home
Secretary; Baroness Valerie Amos, the eighth UN Under-Secretary-General for
Humanitarian Affairs and Emergency Relief Coordinator and former Leader of the
House of Lords; Mahmoud Mohieldin the Senior Vice President of the World Bank
Group; Bob Kerslake, former Head of the Home Civil Service; and Kim Howells,
former Foreign Office Minister.

Warwick graduates are active in business. In the automotive industry, this
includes Linda Jackson, CEO of Citroën; Ralf Speth, CEO of Jaguar Land Rover.
Others include Bernardo Hees, CEO of the Heinz Company & former CEO of Burger
King; Nigel Wilson, CEO of Legal and General; and Ian Gorham, CEO of
Hargreaves Lansdown. Aussie Millions player and Pokersoc player Harrison
Hedges.

Notable Warwick alumni in entertainment and the arts include Emmy and Bafta
award-winning Stephen Merchant, best known for being the co-writer and co-
director of the sitcoms _The Office_ and _Extras_ ; Oscar nominated
screenwriter Tony Roche, known for co-writing and co-producing _Veep_ and _The
Thick of It_ ; Olivier Award winning director and writer, Dominic Cooke, who
is also Artistic Director at the Royal Court Theatre; actress Ruth Jones;
comedian and actor Frank Skinner; Guardian columnist Dawn Foster; blacksmith
turned comedian and comedy writer Lloyd Langford; actor Adam Buxton; science
fiction and fantasy author Jonathan Green; actor Julian Rhind-Tutt; Olivier
Award winning actor, Alex Jennings; author Anne Fine; author A.L. Kennedy;
Tony Wheeler, creator of the Lonely Planet travel guides; Camila
Batmanghelidjh; Merfyn Jones, governor of the BBC; and Grammy Award and Emmy
Award winning and Oscar nominated musician Sting.

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ "Statement of accounts for the year ended 31 July 2017" (PDF). University of Warwick. Retrieved 21 December 2017. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ "People – University Profile – The University of Warwick". University of Warwick. 15 March 2015. Retrieved  10 November 2015. 
  3. **^** "Warwick seals deal for London base at The Shard". _warwick.ac.uk_.  
  4. **^** "Warwick: best campus". _Times Higher Education_. 17 June 2005. Retrieved  4 February 2012. 
  5. **^** "Students 'want friendly campuses '". BBC News. 16 June 2005. Retrieved 4 February 2012. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "University of Warwick crowned the most digitally savvy university". Virginmediabusiness.co.uk. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  7. **^** "Research Excellence Framework results 2014" (PDF). 
  8. **^** "REF 2014 results". The Guardian. Retrieved  24 March 2015. 
  9. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Sex, area background and ethnic group: W20 The University of Warwick". _UCAS_. UCAS. 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2017. 
  10. **^** "People | University Profile | The University of Warwick". _warwick.ac.uk_. Retrieved  2017-10-08. 
  11. **^** "The University of Warwick rankings". QS Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. Retrieved  13 November 2015. 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rees, H., _A University is Born_ , Avalon Books, Coventry (1989)
  13. **^** A compromise was proposed by Geoffrey Templeman, Deputy Chairman of the university's planning committee, who later became the first Vice-Chancellor of Kent University on the border between the City of Canterbury and the county of Kent which faced a similar naming issue, and adopted the name University of Kent at Canterbury. However, the name the 'University of Warwick at Coventry' was not adopted.
  14. **^** Graham Martin, _From Vision to Reality: the Making of the University of Kent at Canterbury_ (1990) page 29 ISBN 0-904938-03-4
  15. **^** Its creation was supported by University of Birmingham Vice-Chancellor Sir Robert Aitken who acted as 'Godfather to the University of Warwick'. The initial plan was for a university college at Coventry attached to Birmingham but Aitken advised an independent initiative to the University Grants Committee.
  16. **^** Ives, E. (2000). The First Civic University: Birmingham, 1880–1980 – An Introductory History. Birmingham: University of Birmingham Press
  17. **^** University of Warwick Student Union
  18. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ [1] Archived 28 July 2009 at the Wayback Machine.
  19. **^** Halpin, Tony (14 December 2002). "Warwick's success hides a budget 'shortfall' of £20m". London: Times Newspaper. Retrieved 13 August 2007. 
  20. **^** Thompson, E. P. (2013). _Warwick University Ltd_. Nottingham: Spokesman Press.  
  21. **^** "Medical school's open doors". BBC News. 29 September 2000. Retrieved  10 November 2011. 
  22. **^** [2] Archived 5 May 2005 at the Wayback Machine.
  23. **^** "University of Warwick Art". University of Warwick. Retrieved  21 October 2011. 
  24. **^** "IBM puts Warwick ahead in Grid quest". _Times Higher Education_. 2 February 2001. Retrieved  10 November 2011. 
  25. **^** "Government cash secures site's future". _Coventry Telegraph_. 24 March 2004. Retrieved  17 November 2011. 
  26. **^** Griffiths, Ian J (13 September 2005). "Q&A: The 'Warwick agreement'". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  28 March 2010. 
  27. **^** Robin Guenther and Gail Vittori (2008). _Sustainable healthcare architecture_. London, UK: John Wiley and Sons. ISBN 9780471784043. Retrieved  16 November 2011. 
  28. **^** "University of Warwick". _The Independent_. London. 1 May 2011. Retrieved  10 November 2011. 
  29. **^** "History". Warwick Medical School. Retrieved  10 November 2011. 
  30. **^** "Warwick peer puts £1 million where his mouth is". _Times Higher Education_. 25 February 2010. Retrieved  10 November 2011. 
  31. **^** "Academic to give £1million to Warwick University". _Coventry Telegraph_. 25 February 2010. Retrieved  10 November 2011. 
  32. **^** "Warwick and Monash team up for global strategy". _Times Higher Education_. 2 February 2012. Retrieved  4 February 2012. 
  33. **^** Shepherd, Jessica (20 March 2012). "Warwick and Queen Mary universities to share lecturers". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  20 March 2012. 
  34. **^** "Warwick and Queen Mary collaborate on teaching and research". _The Guardian_. 20 March 2012. Retrieved  20 March 2012. 
  35. **^** "University of Warwick joins New York's global study of cities of the future". _Birmingham Post_. 25 April 2012. Retrieved  29 May 2012. 
  36. **^** "Midlands bloc hopes for safety in numbers as resources battle intensifies". _Times Higher Education_. 9 August 2012. Retrieved  10 August 2012. 
  37. **^** Cooke, Daniel (25 September 2013). "£100m investment boost for Warwick University". _The Independent_. London. Retrieved  29 September 2013. 
  38. **^** "University of Warwick £100m car centre 'will secure jobs '". BBC. 24 September 2013. Retrieved 29 September 2013. 
  39. **^** "Tasers, Trials, Injunctions and Occupations: the full story of how Warwick and West Midlands Police attempted to shut down radical protest on campus – and failed". _Warwick Globalist_. Retrieved  21 August 2017. 
  40. **^** "Warwick learning grid". _The Guardian_. London. Retrieved  16 November 2011. 
  41. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Lilian Lijn, Work". Archived from the original on 23 April 2008. Retrieved  9 July 2008. 
  42. **^** "University of Warwick Art Collection, White Koan". Retrieved  9 July 2008. 
  43. **^** "University of Warwick to play key role in 2012 Olympics". University of Warwick. 4 June 2010. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  44. **^** "Warwick Business School to open London campus in the Shard". _Financial Times_
  45. **^** Cooke, Daniel (25 September 2013). "£100m investment boost for Warwick University". _The Independent_. London.  
  46. **^** [3] Archived 12 March 2009 at the Wayback Machine.
  47. **^** [4] Archived 9 October 2007 at the Wayback Machine.
  48. **^** "Academic Departments". University of Warwick. Retrieved  6 January 2012. 
  49. **^** Armorial bearings of the university (Retrieved 12 September 2011)
  50. **^** "End of Cycle 2016 Data Resources DR4_001_03 Applications by provider". _UCAS_. UCAS. 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2017. 
  51. **^** "End of Cycle 2016 Data Resources DR4_001_02 Main scheme acceptances by provider". _UCAS_. UCAS. 2016. Retrieved  10 February 2017. 
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "University League Table 2018". _The Complete University Guide_. Retrieved  26 April 2017. 
  53. **^** "FOI Request – Warwick University – F247.14 - 15 Undergraduate admissions breakdown" (PDF). _whatdotheyknow_. University of Warwick Legal Compliance Team. Retrieved  28 March 2016. 
  54. **^** "University League Table 2018". Complete University Guide. Retrieved  26 April 2017. 
  55. **^** "Which elite universities have the highest offer rates". _The Telegraph_. Retrieved  21 October 2016. 
  56. **^** Bhardwa, Seeta. "Clearing 2017: Top 10 UK universities with courses available". Times Higher Education. Retrieved 15 August 2017. 
  57. **^** "Warwick University plans maximum £9,250 tuition fees". BBC News. 24 March 2011. Retrieved  4 November 2012. 
  58. **^** "Library Statistics". _University of Warwick_. University of Warwick Library. 9 November 2011. Archived from the original on 10 January 2012. Retrieved  10 January 2012. 
  59. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017 - UK". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  15 August 2017. 
  60. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  15 August 2017. 
  61. **^** "QS World University Rankings 2018 - United Kingdom". Quacquarelli Symonds Ltd. Retrieved  8 June 2017. 
  62. **^** "QS World University Rankings 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Ltd. Retrieved  8 June 2017. 
  63. **^** "World University Rankings 2018 - United Kingdom". Times Higher Education. Retrieved  5 September 2017. 
  64. **^** "World University Rankings 2018". Times Higher Education. Retrieved  5 September 2017. 
  65. **^** "CWTS Leiden Ranking 2017 - PP top 10%". _CWTS Leiden Ranking 2017_. Retrieved  19 May 2017. 
  66. **^** "University league tables 2018". _The Guardian_. 16 May 2017. Retrieved  16 May 2017. 
  67. **^** "The Times and Sunday Times University Good University Guide 2018". Times Newspapers. Retrieved  24 September 2017. 
  68. **^** "Teaching Excellence Framework outcomes". Higher Education Funding Council for England. Retrieved  22 June 2017. 
  69. **^** "University of Warwick ranked 3rd in world in new top 50 under 50 table". The University of Warwick. 11 June 2013.  
  70. **^** "Round University Rankings 2016". RUR Rankings Agency. Retrieved  22 September 2016. 
  71. **^** "University ranking based on performance over 10 years" (PDF). _The Times_. London. 2007. Archived from the original (PDF) on 14 April 2008. Retrieved 28 April 2008. 
  72. **^** "Old school 'key to student place '". BBC. 20 September 2007. Retrieved 31 January 2009. 
  73. **^** "Domestic Ranking of British Universisities over a 10-Year Period". The University Buzz.  
  74. **^** Grove, Jack. "Russell Group dominates UK's graduate employment charts". _Times Higher Education_. Retrieved  11 August 2017. 
  75. **^** Baker, Simon (22 September 2011). "Salary premium from post-92s can trump that of bigger names | General". _Times Higher Education_. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  76. **^** "Warwick University 'top target' for graduate employers". _The Telegraph_. 14 January 2013.  
  77. **^** "The best UK universities chosen by major employers". _Times Higher Education_. London. 12 November 2015.  
  78. **^** The Sunday Times University Guide 2015 - University of the Year. Retrieved 25 September 2014
  79. **^** Economics - Top UK University Subject Tables and Rankings 2014. Complete University Guide. Retrieved 12 August 2013.
  80. **^** "Who's Who in the Subject League Tables". Retrieved  12 October 2016. 
  81. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "RAE 2008 Outstanding Results". University of Warwick. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  82. **^** Bradshaw, Della (25 February 2013). "Warwick, Harvard and Insead scoop the academic 'Oscars'". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  83. **^** "Warwick Accommodation". University of Warwick. 23 November 2012. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  84. **^** E. P. Thompson (1970). _Warwick University Limited_. Penguin. ISBN 0-14-080230-4.  
  85. **^** "Ford boss: 'Business to fund universities '". BBC News. 19 October 2002. Retrieved 28 March 2010. 
  86. **^** "Hommous". Warwicksu.com. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  87. **^** http://www.tedxwarwick.com TEDxWarwick Website
  88. **^** http://www.unibrass.co.uk/ UniBrass Website
  89. **^** "Warwick Economics Summit". University of Warwick. 17 April 2013. Retrieved  1 May 2013. 
  90. **^** "Target Skysports". Archived from the original on 27 July 2009. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 
  91. **^** "The Guardian Student Media Awards 2006". _The Guardian_. London. 9 October 2006. Retrieved  21 December 2011. 
  92. **^** "Warwick wins University Challenge". BBC News. 17 April 2007. Retrieved  21 December 2011. 
  93. **^** "Campus Accommodation". University of Warwick. Retrieved  4 February 2012. 
  94. **^** "Yes! Now It is Official – Royal Leamington Spa Really is a Great Place to Live". _Leamington Spa Sunday Times_. leamingtonspapeople. Archived from the original on 4 September 2014. Retrieved  4 February 2012. 
  95. **^** "Warwick Accommodation". University of Warwick. Retrieved  4 February 2012. 
  96. **^** "Warwick" (PDF). _The Economist_.  
  97. **^** "University of Warwick Alumni & Friends". University of Warwick. 5 August 2013. Retrieved  16 August 2013. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**University of Warwick**_.  
---|---  
  
  * University of Warwick website

  * v
  * t
  * e

University of Warwick  
  
---  
People |

  * Catherine Ashton ( _Chancellor_ )
  * Stuart Croft ( _Vice-Chancellor_ )
  * Alumni
  * Academics

|  
  
Departments  
and buildings |

  * Warwick Arts Centre
  * Warwick Business School
  * Gibbet Hill Campus
  * Main Campus
  * Warwick Manufacturing Group
  * Warwick Medical School
  * Modern Records Centre
  * Science Park
  * Westwood Campus
  * Center for Urban Science and Progress

  
  
Student life |

  * _The Boar_
  * Radio Warwick
  * Boat Club
  * Warwick Economics Summit
  * Students' Union
  * Symphony Orchestra
  * Warwick International Development Summit
  * Warwick Student Arts Festival

  
  
Other |

  * Academic dress
  * Lord Rootes Memorial Fund
  * _Manifold_
  * _Pli_
  * Warwick Prize for Writing

  
  
  * **Category**
  * **Commons**

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Russell Group  
  
---  
Members |

  * Birmingham
  * Bristol
  * Cambridge
  * Cardiff
  * Durham
  * Edinburgh
  * Exeter
  * Glasgow
  * Imperial College London
  * King's College London
  * Leeds
  * Liverpool
  * London School of Economics
  * Manchester
  * Newcastle
  * Nottingham
  * Oxford
  * Queen's
  * Queen Mary
  * Sheffield
  * Southampton
  * University College London
  * Warwick
  * York

  
  
People |

  * Wendy Piatt
  * David Eastwood

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities and colleges in the West Midlands  
  
---  
Universities |

  * Aston
  * Birmingham
  * Birmingham City
  * BPP
  * Coventry
  * Harper Adams
  * Keele
  * Law
  * Newman
  * Staffordshire
  * UCB
  * Warwick
  * Wolverhampton
  * Worcester

  
  
Further Education colleges |

  * Birmingham Metropolitan
  * Bournville
  * Burton
  * Buxton & Leek
  * City College, Coventry
  * Dudley
  * Evesham
  * Fircroft
  * Halesowen
  * Heart of Worcestershire
  * Henley
  * Hereford College of Arts
  * Herefordshire and Ludlow College
  * Hereward
  * Kidderminster
  * Malvern Hills
  * Newcastle-under-Lyme
  * North Shropshire
  * North Warwickshire and Hinckley
  * Queen Alexandra
  * Royal National College for the Blind
  * Sandwell
  * Shrewsbury
  * Solihull
  * South & City Birmingham
  * South Staffordshire
  * Stafford
  * Stoke-on-Trent
  * Stourbridge
  * Stratford-upon-Avon
  * Telford
  * Walsall
  * Warwickshire
  * Wolverhampton

  
  
Sixth form colleges |

  * Cadbury
  * Hereford
  * Joseph Chamberlain
  * King Edward VI College, Nuneaton
  * King Edward VI College, Stourbridge
  * Ludlow
  * Moorlands
  * New College, Telford
  * Shrewsbury
  * Solihull
  * Stoke-on-Trent
  * Worcester

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities in the United Kingdom  
  
---  
England |

| East Anglia |

  * Anglia Ruskin
  * BPP
  * Cambridge
  * East Anglia
  * Norwich University of the Arts
  * Suffolk

  
  
---|---  
London |

| University  
of London |

  * Birkbeck
  * City
  * Courtauld
  * Goldsmiths
  * Heythrop
  * Institute of Cancer Research
  * KCL
  * London Business School
  * LSE
  * LSHTM
  * Queen Mary
  * Royal Academy of Music
  * RCSSD
  * Royal Holloway
  * Royal Veterinary College
  * St George's
  * SOAS
  * UCL

  
  
---|---  
Other |

  * BPP
  * Brunel
  * East London
  * Greenwich
  * Imperial
  * Kingston
  * Law
  * London Met
  * London South Bank
  * Middlesex
  * Regent's University London
  * Richmond, The American International University in London
  * Royal College of Art
  * Royal College of Music
  * Roehampton
  * St Mary's
  * University of the Arts London
  * Westminster
  * West London

  
  
Midlands |

  * Aston
  * BPP
  * Birmingham
  * Birmingham City
  * Bishop Grosseteste
  * Coventry
  * De Montfort
  * Derby
  * Harper Adams
  * Keele
  * Law
  * Leicester
  * Lincoln
  * Loughborough
  * Newman
  * Northampton
  * Nottingham
  * Nottingham Trent
  * Staffordshire
  * University College Birmingham
  * Warwick
  * Wolverhampton
  * Worcester

  
  
North |

  * Bolton
  * BPP
  * Bradford
  * Central Lancashire
  * Chester
  * Cumbria
  * Durham
  * Edge Hill
  * Huddersfield
  * Hull
  * Lancaster
  * Law
  * Leeds
  * Leeds Beckett
  * Leeds Trinity
  * Liverpool
  * Liverpool Hope
  * Liverpool John Moores
  * LSTM
  * Manchester
  * Manchester Metropolitan
  * Newcastle
  * Northumbria
  * Salford
  * Sheffield
  * Sheffield Hallam
  * Sunderland
  * Teesside
  * York
  * York St. John

  
  
South |

  * Arts University Bournemouth
  * Ashridge
  * Bath
  * Bath Spa
  * Bedfordshire
  * Bournemouth
  * BPP
  * Brighton
  * Bristol
  * Buckingham
  * Buckinghamshire New
  * Canterbury Christ Church
  * Chichester
  * Cranfield
  * Creative Arts
  * Essex
  * Exeter
  * Falmouth
  * Gloucestershire
  * Hertfordshire
  * Kent
  * Law
  * Oxford
  * Oxford Brookes
  * Plymouth
  * Portsmouth
  * Reading
  * Royal Agricultural University
  * St Mark & St John
  * Southampton
  * Southampton Solent
  * Surrey
  * Sussex
  * UWE
  * Winchester

  
  
Northern Ireland |

  * Queen's
  * Ulster

  
  
Scotland |

  * Aberdeen
  * Abertay Dundee
  * Dundee
  * Edinburgh
  * Edinburgh Napier
  * Glasgow
  * Glasgow Caledonian
  * Heriot-Watt
  * Highlands and Islands
  * Queen Margaret
  * Robert Gordon
  * Royal Conservatoire of Scotland
  * St Andrews
  * Stirling
  * Strathclyde
  * West of Scotland

  
  
Wales |

  * Aberystwyth
  * Bangor
  * Cardiff
  * Cardiff Metropolitan
  * South Wales
  * Swansea
  * Swansea Metropolitan
  * UW Trinity Saint David
  * Wrexham Glyndŵr

  
  
Overseas territories |

  * Bermuda College
  * Cayman Islands Law School
  * International College of the Cayman Islands
  * Saint James School of Medicine
  * St. Matthew's University
  * University of Gibraltar
  * University College of the Cayman Islands
  * University of Science, Arts and Technology
  * University of the West Indies

  
  
Crown dependencies |

  * _University of the Channel Islands in Guernsey_

  
  
Non−geographic |

  * Lambeth degrees
  * Open University
  * University of London International Programmes

  
  
Related |

  * List by date of foundation (Third-oldest in England)
  * List by endowment
  * List by enrollment
  * Colleges within universities
  * Degree abbreviations
  * National Union of Students
  * Rankings
  * Undergraduate degree classification
  * UCAS
  * HEFCE
  * Scottish Funding Council

  
  
  * **Category**
  * **Commons**
  * **List**

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 128035475
  * LCCN: n50059535
  * ISNI: 0000 0000 8809 1613
  * GND: 11183-1
  * SUDOC: 030684595
  * BNF: cb12205114z (data)

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=University_of_Warwick&oldid=816826299"

Categories:

  * University of Warwick
  * Educational institutions established in 1965
  * 1965 establishments in England
  * Russell Group
  * Buildings and structures in Coventry

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Use dmy dates from April 2017
  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2017
  * Articles with unsourced statements from May 2017
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2012
  * Articles with unsourced statements from January 2012
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * Català
  * Cebuano
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Frysk
  * 한국어
  * Italiano
  * Latina
  * Lietuvių
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * اردو
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 23 December 2017, at 23:45.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

