

# University of Pittsburgh

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

University of Pittsburgh  
---  
  
Former names

| Pittsburgh Academy (1787–1819)  
Western University of Pennsylvania (1819–1908)  
Motto | _Veritas et Virtus_ (Latin)  
  
Motto in English

| Truth and Virtue  
Type | State-related[1]  
Established | February 28, 1787 (1787-02-28)  
Endowment | $3.53 billion (2016)[2]  
Chancellor | Patrick D. Gallagher  
Provost | Patricia E. Beeson  
  
Academic staff

| 4,977[3][a]  
Students | 28,664[b][3]  
Undergraduates | 19,123[3]  
Postgraduates | 9,541[3]  
Location | Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.  
Campus | Urban, 132 acres (53 ha)  
Colors | Blue and Gold[4]  
  
Athletics | NCAA Division I – ACC, EAGL  
Nickname | Panthers  
Affiliations | AAU, APLU, EDUCAUSE, MSA, ORAU, URA  
Mascot | Roc the Panther  
Website | www.pitt.edu  
  
Pennsylvania Historical Marker  
  
Designated | November 2, 1979[5]  
  
The **University of Pittsburgh** (commonly referred to as **Pitt** ) is a
state-related research university located in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania. In 1787
after the American Revolutionary War, it was founded on the edge of the
American frontier as the Pittsburgh Academy. It developed and was renamed as
Western University of Pennsylvania by a change to its charter in 1819. After
surviving two devastating fires and various relocations within the area, the
school moved to its current location in the Oakland neighborhood of the city;
it was renamed as the University of Pittsburgh in 1908. For most of its
history, Pitt was a private institution, until 1966 when it became part of the
Commonwealth System of Higher Education.

The university is composed of 17 undergraduate and graduate schools and
colleges located at its urban Pittsburgh campus, home to the university's
central administration and 28,766 undergraduate, graduate, and professional
students. The university also includes four undergraduate schools located at
campuses within Western Pennsylvania: Bradford, Greensburg, Johnstown, and
Titusville. The 132-acre Pittsburgh campus has multiple contributing historic
buildings of the Schenley Farms Historic District, most notably its 42-story
Gothic revival centerpiece, the Cathedral of Learning. The campus is situated
adjacent to the flagship medical facilities of its closely affiliated
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC), as well as the Carnegie
Museums of Pittsburgh, Schenley Park, and Carnegie Mellon University.

The university has an annual operating budget of approximately $2 billion,
which includes nearly $900 million in research and development expenditures. A
member of the Association of American Universities, Pitt is the sixth-largest
recipient of federally sponsored research funding among U.S. universities in
2013, and it is a major recipient of research funding from the National
Institutes of Health.[6] It is the second-largest non-government employer in
the Pittsburgh region behind UPMC. Pitt is ranked among the top research
universities in the United States in both domestic[7][8] and international
rankings,[9][10][11][12] and has been listed as a "best value" in higher
education by several publications.[13][14]

Pitt students have access to various arts programs throughout the campus and
city, and can participate in over 400 student clubs and organizations. Pitt's
varsity athletic teams, collectively known as the Pittsburgh Panthers, compete
in Division I of the NCAA, primarily as members of the Atlantic Coast
Conference.

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Founding
    * 1.2 The Western University
    * 1.3 A new name and home
    * 1.4 Development of the polio vaccine
    * 1.5 State relations to present day
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 Historic buildings
    * 2.2 Other buildings
    * 2.3 University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
    * 2.4 Regional campuses
  * 3 Community impact
  * 4 Organization and administration
  * 5 Academics
    * 5.1 International studies
    * 5.2 Rankings
    * 5.3 Scholars
  * 6 Research
  * 7 Student life
    * 7.1 Housing
    * 7.2 Traditions
    * 7.3 Pitt Arts
    * 7.4 Student theater
    * 7.5 Student music
    * 7.6 Student media
    * 7.7 Student organizations
    * 7.8 Greek life
      * 7.8.1 Annual Greek life events
  * 8 Athletics
    * 8.1 Football
    * 8.2 Basketball
    * 8.3 Olympic sports
    * 8.4 Support groups
  * 9 People
    * 9.1 Faculty
    * 9.2 Alumni
  * 10 Notes
  * 11 References
    * 11.1 Works cited
  * 12 External links

## History[edit]

Hugh Henry Brackenridge, founder of Pittsburgh Academy, the precursor to the
University of Pittsburgh

Main article: History of the University of Pittsburgh

### Founding[edit]

Founded by Hugh Henry Brackenridge as **Pittsburgh Academy** in 1787, the
University of Pittsburgh is one of the few universities and colleges
established in the 18th century in the United States. It is the oldest
continuously chartered institution of learning in the U.S. west of the
Allegheny Mountains.[15] The school began as a preparatory school, presumably
in a log cabin, possibly as early as 1770 [16] in Western Pennsylvania, then a
frontier.[17] Brackenridge obtained a charter for the school from the state
legislature of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania on February 28, 1787, just ten
weeks before the opening of the Constitutional Convention in
Philadelphia.[18][19] A brick building was erected in 1790 on the south side
of Third Street and Cherry Alley for the Pittsburgh Academy.[20][21] The small
two-story brick building, with a gable facing the alley, contained three
rooms: one below and two above.[22]

###  The Western University[edit]

The University in 1833 at its location on 3rd Avenue in downtown Pittsburgh

Within a short period, more advanced education in the area was needed, so in
1819 the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania amended the school's 1787 charter to
confer university status. The school took the name the **Western University of
Pennsylvania** , or WUP, and was intended to be the western sister institution
to the University of Pennsylvania in Philadelphia.[19][23] By 1830, WUP had
moved into a new three-story, freestone-fronted building, with Ionic columns
and a cupola, near its original buildings fronting the south side of Third
Street, between Smithfield Street and Cherry Alley in downtown Pittsburgh. By
the 1830s, the university faced severe financial pressure to abandon its
traditional liberal education in favor of the state legislature's desire for
it to provide more vocational training. The decision to remain committed to
liberal education nearly killed the university, but it persevered despite its
abandonment by the city and state.[24] It was also during this era that the
founder of Mellon Bank, Thomas Mellon (Class of 1837), graduated and later
taught at WUP.[25][20][21]

The university's buildings, along with most of its records and files, were
destroyed in the Great Fire of 1845 that wiped out 20 square blocks of
Pittsburgh. Classes were temporarily held in Trinity Church until a new
building was constructed on Duquesne Way (on what was the site of the former
Horne's department store). Only four years later, in 1849, this building also
was destroyed by fire. Due to the catastrophic nature of these fires,
operations were suspended for a few years to allow the university time to
regroup and rebuild. By 1854, WUP had erected a new building on the corner of
Ross and Diamond (now Forbes Avenue) streets (site of the present day City-
County building) and classes resumed in 1855. It is during this era, in 1867,
that Samuel Pierpont Langley, astronomer, inventor, aviation pioneer and
future Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution, was chosen as director of the
Allegheny Observatory that was donated to WUP in 1865. Langley was professor
of astronomy and physics and remained at WUP until 1891, when he was succeeded
by another prominent astronomer, James Keeler. Growing quickly during this
period, WUP outgrew its downtown facilities and the university moved its
campus to Allegheny City (present-day North Side).[25][20][21]

The university eventually found itself on a 10-acre (4.0 ha) site on the North
Side's Observatory Hill at the location of its Allegheny Observatory. There,
it constructed two new buildings, Science Hall and Main Hall, that were
occupied by 1889 and 1890 respectively. During this era, the first collegiate
football team was formed at Pitt in 1889. In 1892, the Western Pennsylvania
Medical College was amalgamated into the university. By 1893, the university
had graduated its first African-American, William Dammond.[26] In 1895 WUP
established its School of Law, and Andrew Carnegie and George Westinghouse
were elected to the Board of Trustees, where they joined Andrew Mellon who had
been elected in 1894. The Pittsburgh College of Pharmacy and Pittsburgh Dental
School also joined the university in 1896. In 1898, the first women, sisters
Margaret and Stella Stein, graduated from the university.[27] During this
period, University engineering professor Reginald Fessenden was conducting
pioneering work in radio broadcasting. By 1904, playing at Exposition Park,
the university had its first undefeated football team.[25][20][21][28]

### A new name and home[edit]

The Cathedral of Learning, the centerpiece of Pitt's campus and the tallest
educational building in the Western Hemisphere

Citing a need to avoid confusion, distinguish itself from the University of
Pennsylvania, and return to its roots by identifying itself with the city, the
Western University of Pennsylvania, by act of the state legislature, was
renamed the **University of Pittsburgh** in the summer of 1908. During this
time, the university had also outgrown its accommodations on what is now the
North Side of Pittsburgh and its departments had been scattered throughout the
city for years. To consolidate all of its components on one campus, WUP bought
43 acres (170,000  m2) of land in December 1907 in what is now the Oakland
neighborhood of Pittsburgh and began relocating departments there by 1909.[29]
The initial campus plan for the new location centered on the winning
submission from a national architectural contest that incorporated a Greek
Acropolis design by Henry Hornbostel for 30 buildings.[30] However, due to
financial and other constraints, only four of the buildings were constructed
in this style, of which only Thaw Hall remains today. In the fall of 1909, the
university became the first college to adopt the panther as its mascot.[31] It
was also during this period that the university, led by Chancellor Samuel
McCormick, again held off pressures to abandon the school's commitment to
liberal education in favor of more technical-based training. During his
administration, McCormick also led the university into a new level of national
recognition, expansion, and growth, as well as beginning institutional support
of athletics.[30]

In the 1920s, new university chancellor John Gabbert Bowman declared that he
had a vision for a centerpiece "tall building" for the university. The 14
acres (5.7 ha) Frick Acres property in Oakland was soon purchased and plans
for the campus shifted focus from the hillside to a neo-Gothic Revival plan
that today comprises the Cathedral of Learning, Heinz Memorial Chapel, Stephen
Foster Memorial, and Clapp Hall buildings. By 1925, Bowman had settled on a
design by Charles Klauder for the "tall building": an attention-getting
535-foot (163 m) tower whose great height, with open spaces all around, would
suggest the "character that ought to be in an educated man." The building's
"parallel lines going up and up...would express courage [and] fearlessness"
and it would "unify Pittsburgh into a community conscious of its character."
The Cathedral is "cut off" flat at the top to suggest that its lines, like
education, have no ending. The building was financed by donors and by a
campaign to collect dimes from local school children. Bowman was a persuasive
leader and although the Great Depression intervened, the Cathedral of
Learning, on which construction was begun in 1926, began hosting classes in
1931 and was formally dedicated in 1937. Today, it remains the second tallest
university building in the world and contains an equally impressive interior
highlighted by a half-acre (2,000 m²) Gothic hall Commons Room with 52-foot
(16 m) tall arches currently surrounded by 30 Nationality Rooms, however seven
more Nationality Rooms are in the making.[32]

### Development of the polio vaccine[edit]

Jonas Salk developed the first polio vaccine at the University of Pittsburgh.

In the early 20th century, epidemics of polio began to hit the United States
and other industrialized countries. As hospitals filled with patients in iron
lungs, and tens of thousands were left disabled, the fear of polio grew,
leading to the closing of many public facilities. Meanwhile, Dr. Jonas Salk
had set up the University of Pittsburgh's Virus Research Lab in the basement
of what is now Salk Hall. By 1951, Salk and his team had begun immunization
experiments in monkeys using dead polio virus. Soon, however, Salk began to
test inoculations in paralyzed polio patients and by 1953 human trials among
the general population were initiated. By the spring of the following year,
the largest controlled field trials in medical history were underway, and by
1955 the vaccine developed by Salk and his researchers was declared effective.
By 1962, Salk's vaccine had reduced the incidence of polio in the United
States by 95 percent. The breakthroughs in immunology and vaccine development
at Pitt by Salk and his team are considered one of the most significant
scientific and medical achievements in history.[33][34]

### State relations to present day[edit]

In 1966, Pitt was designated by Pennsylvania as a state-related university. As
such, Pitt receives public funds ($154.3 million in fiscal year 2016) covering
about 7% of its operating budget,[35] and offers reduced tuition to
Pennsylvania residents. Pitt retains independent control, but is typically
categorized as a public university. Upon affiliation with the state,
subsidized tuition led to a massive influx of new students and rapid expansion
of Pitt's size and scope. In the 1970s, Pitt's football team returned to
greatness with a national championship season in 1976 led by Hall of Fame
running back Tony Dorsett and continued success in the 1980s with players such
as Hall of Fame quarterback Dan Marino. In the 1980s, significant medical
research in the field of organ transplantation was conducted by Thomas Starzl,
establishing Pitt as the world leader in the field of organ transplantation.
In 1991, chancellor Wesley Posvar retired after 24 years in office. His
administration is best known for elimination of the university's debt from its
1960s financial crisis and for increasing the school's prestige and endowment.
Under Posvar, Pitt's operating budget grew sevenfold to $630 million and its
endowment tripled to $257 million.[36]

Mark Nordenberg was chancellor of the university from 1995 to 2014 and led
Pitt through a period of substantial progress, including a $2-billion capital-
raising campaign that is over three quarters of the way toward achieving its
goal[37] and a $1-billion 12-year facilities plan.[38] Major initiatives and
events that have occurred during his tenure include the construction of the
Petersen Events Center, a major expansion of on-campus housing, the growth of
the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center and the restructuring of its
relationship with the university, and a series of disruptive bomb threats that
occurred in 2012.

Patrick D. Gallagher was named the 18th chancellor of the university and
assumed the office on August 1, 2014.[39]

## Campus[edit]

The lower campus, the traditional heart of the university, is typified by
Gothic Revival architecture including Heinz Chapel (right) and the Stephen
Foster Memorial (center foreground), but the 42-story Cathedral of Learning
dominates most views across the Oakland neighborhood

The University of Pittsburgh's main campus comprises approximately 132 urban
acres (0.53 km2) located in Pittsburgh's historic Oakland neighborhood. Much
of the campus, including its centerpiece 42-story Cathedral of Learning, falls
within the Oakland Civic Center/Schenley Farms National Historic District.[40]
The campus has been noted for its impressive architecture,[41] and contains an
eclectic mix of architecture that includes Greek revival, Neogothic, Italian
Renaissance, and modern. It has been termed "a theme park of replica
buildings, representing the architecture of the past speaking to the
present."[42] The campus has won multiple Green Star Awards from the
Professional Grounds Management Society.[43][44][45]

The University of Pittsburgh's main campus contains four contiguous sections:
upper (sports complexes, residence halls); mid (Benedum, Chevron, Allen and
Thaw Halls); lower (Cathedral of Learning, Union, Posvar Hall); and on the
west end of campus, the medical center complex. The campus is bordered by
Darragh Street/McKee Place to the west and Bellefield Avenue/Dithridge Street
to the east; Forbes and Fifth avenues traverse the campus from west to east.
Although generally within walking distance, the university also runs a bus and
shuttle service between various campus locations and bordering
neighborhoods.[46]

The main campus is within walking distance of many recreational, cultural, and
educational institutions in the Oakland neighborhood. The campus is adjacent
to Schenley Plaza, the main branch of the Carnegie Public Library, the
Carnegie Museums of Natural History and Art and the Carnegie Music Hall, as
well as portions of Carnegie Mellon University. Carlow University is just west
of campus, adjacent to the university's medical center complexes. The main
quad of Carnegie Mellon University, Central Catholic High School, and historic
Schenley Park, site of the Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens, lie across
Junction Hollow on the east end.

### Historic buildings[edit]

Heinz Memorial Chapel

Two Pitt buildings are on the National Register of Historic Places: Allegheny
Observatory (in Pittsburgh's Riverview Park on the Northside) and the
Cathedral of Learning.[47] Twenty-one of Pitt's buildings (including the 5
residence halls that make up Schenley Quadrangle, see below) are contributing
properties to the Schenley Farms-Oakland Civic Center Historic District that
has been listed on the National Register of Historic Places as a historic
district.[40]

Due to the historical nature of various sites around Pitt's buildings, the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania has placed historical markers outside the
Allegheny Observatory,[48] Posvar Hall,[49][50] Salk Hall,[51] Stephen Foster
Memorial,[52] and the William Pitt Union.[53] In addition, a Pennsylvania
Historical Marker has been placed on campus near the Cathedral of Learning to
mark the significance of the University of Pittsburgh itself.[54] Another
state historical marker has been placed to highlight the significance of
Pitt's involvement in the archaeological excavation at the Meadowcroft
Rockshelter in Avella, Pennsylvania.[55]

In addition, the Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation has designated
the following Pitt buildings as Pittsburgh Historic Landmarks: Allegheny
Observatory, Allen Hall, Alumni Hall, Bellefield Hall, Chancellor's Residence,
Cathedral of Learning, the Cathedral of Learning interior rooms, Gardner Steel
Conference Center, Heinz Memorial Chapel, Thaw Hall, Salk Hall, Schenley
Quadrangle residence halls, Stephen Foster Memorial, the University Child
Development Center, and the William Pitt Union.[56][57]

Other Pitt buildings not designated individually as landmarks, but listed
among the 16 Pitt-owned contributing properties to the Schenley Farms Historic
District, include Clapp Hall, O'Hara Student Center, Ruskin Hall, Thackeray
Hall, Frick Fine Arts Building, Music Building, and the University Club.[58]

The restored Louis XV mirrored ballroom of the Beaux-Arts styled William Pitt
Union

Historic structures within, adjacent to, or near Pitt's campus, but not
belonging to the university, include the Carnegie Museum buildings, Frick
School, Forbes Field wall remnant, Magee Estate iron fence, the Schenley
Fountain, Mellon Institute, Phipps Conservatory & Botanical Gardens, the
Pittsburgh Athletic Association, St. Paul's Cathedral, St. Nicholas Greek
Orthodox Church, Schenley High School, Soldiers and Sailors Memorial Hall \-
where scenes of The Silence of the Lambs were filmed in 1990, and the Stephen
Foster sculpture. Many of these buildings and their facilities are integrated
into the events and activities of the university.[59][60][61]

### Other buildings[edit]

Main article: List of University of Pittsburgh buildings

Frick Fine Arts Building with the Mary Schenley Memorial Fountain

The majority of Pitt-owned facilities are clustered in the Oakland
neighborhood of Pittsburgh which includes the Schenley Farms Historic
District, however a few prominent facilities are scattered elsewhere
throughout the city, including the adjacent Shadyside neighborhood. Pitt also
maintains regional Pennsylvania campuses in Bradford, Greensburg, Johnstown,
and Titusville, as well as a Computer Center in RIDC Park in Blawnox, the Plum
Boro Science Center in Plum, the University of Pittsburgh Applied Research
Center (U-PARC) in Harmarville, and the Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology in
Linesville.[62] The university also has a major archeological research site,
the Allen L. Cook Spring Creek Preserve, in Spring Creek, Wyoming.[63][64]

Athletic facilities of the University of Pittsburgh Panthers that are located
in Oakland in the upper campus and include the Charles L Cost Sports Center,
Fitzgerald Field House, the Petersen Events Center, Trees Hall and Trees
Field. An approximately $30 million upgrade of on-campus sports facilities,
starting with the Petersen Sports Complex, includes new soccer, baseball,
softball facilities, and helps clear a space for the future construction of a
new track and field and band complex.[65] Athletic facilities in Pittsburgh
that are located outside of the Oakland neighborhood include Heinz Field and
the UPMC Sports Performance Complex.[66]

Major on-campus residence halls include the Litchfield Towers, Schenley
Quadrangle, Nordenberg Hall, Bouquet Gardens and Ruskin Hall located on the
lower campus, Lothrop Hall and Forbes Hall on the medical campus, and
Pennsylvania, Panther, and Sutherland halls located on the upper campus.[67]

### University of Pittsburgh Medical Center[edit]

See also: List of UPMC buildings in Pittsburgh

Thomas Starzl Biomedical Science Tower is connected to the med school and
UPMC's flagship hospitals

The University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC), which is consistently
ranked in U.S. News & World Report's "Honor Roll" of America's top
hospitals,[68] consists of the following hospitals and facilities in the
Oakland area, many of which have shared use with various university
departments: UPMC Presbyterian Hospital, UPMC Montefiore Hospital, Magee-
Women's Hospital of UPMC, Western Psychiatric Institute and Clinic in Thomas
Detre Hall, Eye and Ear Institute, Forbes Tower (home to the School of Health
and Rehabilitation Sciences), Iroquois Building, Kaufman Medical Building,
Medical Arts Building, 230 McKee Place, and UPMC University Center. UPMC
academic hospitals and facilities that are scattered elsewhere throughout the
city include the Children's Hospital of Pittsburgh of UPMC campus in the
Lawrencevville neighborhood, the UPMC Sports Performance Complex on the South
Side, and UPMC Shadyside and the University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute in
the Hillman Cancer Center both located in the Shadyside neighborhood adjacent
to Oakland.[69]

### Regional campuses[edit]

Regional campuses offer master's, bachelor's, and associate degrees at four
locations in Western Pennsylvania. They also allow students to take
preliminary courses and relocate to other regional campuses or the Oakland
campus to complete their degrees. They offer several degrees and certificates:

  * University of Pittsburgh at Bradford – master's, bachelor's, associate's and certificates
  * University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg – master's, bachelor's and certificates
  * University of Pittsburgh at Johnstown – bachelor's and certificates
  * University of Pittsburgh at Titusville – Bachelor of Business Management and Arts in Human Relations, associate's and certificates

## Community impact[edit]

Aerial view of the university and Oakland neighborhood; Carnegie Mellon
University is at top-right

The University of Pittsburgh has been noted for both its role in community
outreach and its impact on the economy of the city and the Western
Pennsylvania region. In 2009, Pitt was ranked second overall, and the top
public university in the nation, as a "Best Neighbor" for positive impact on
its urban community, including both commercial and residential activities such
as revitalization, cultural renewal, economics, and community service and
development according to the "Saviors of Our Cities" ranking.[70] Pitt was
also listed as a "best neighbor" in the previous ranking released in 2006.[71]
These rankings reflect the statistics that each year Pitt spends more than
$1.7 billion in the community and supports nearly 33,800 jobs in Allegheny
County. The university is the Pittsburgh region's second largest non-
government employer behind its affiliated University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center (UPMC).[72] Pitt's research program alone imports more than $822
million into the region each year (more than $3.60 for each $1 of state
appropriations), and supports some 23,100 local jobs.[73][20][29] Pitt
students also spend more than $213 million on goods, services, and rental
payments within the local economy.[74] Pitt ranked sixth in the number of
startups spawned by technologies developed by its researchers according to
Association of University Technology Managers.[75]

Former Vice President of the United States Joe Biden speaks at the Peterson
Events Center on 5 April 2016

Pitt and its medical school are the academic partners of the closely
affiliated the University of Pittsburgh Medical Center. With over 55,000
employees and $10 billion in annual revenue, UPMC is the largest non-
government employer in Pennsylvania.[76]

Through the Pitt Volunteer Pool, faculty and staff members donate more than
10,000 hours annually to community service projects for agencies such as the
Salvation Army, Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force, and Greater Pittsburgh Community
Food Bank.

Pitt also is a leading producer of Peace Corps volunteers.[74][77] According
to the Peace Corps' 2008 ranking of colleges and universities, only 14 schools
in the nation produced more Peace Corp volunteers.[78] Pitt's graduate school
also ranked 10th for most alumni Peace Corps volunteers.[79]

## Organization and administration[edit]

**College/school founding**  
---  
**College/school** |  **Year founded**  
  
* * *  
  
Arts and Sciences |  1787  
Business (graduate) |  1960  
Business (undergraduate) |  1907  
Dental Medicine |  1896  
Education |  1910  
Engineering |  1846  
General Studies |  1932  
Health & Rehabilitation Sciences |  1969  
Honors |  1987  
Computing and Information |  1901  
Law |  1895  
Medicine |  1883  
Nursing |  1939  
Pharmacy |  1878  
Public & International Affairs |  1957  
Public Health |  1948  
Social Work |  1938  
  
The university was chartered by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania in 1787 and
it operated as a fully private institution until an alteration to its charter
in 1966 at which point it became part of the Commonwealth System of Higher
Education. This conferred "state-related" status to the university making it a
legal instrument of the Commonwealth which provides an annual financial
appropriation, currently 7.7% of the university's total operating budget,[80]
in exchange for the university offering tuition discounts to students who are
residents of Pennsylvania. Legally, however, the university remains a private
entity, operating under its nonprofit corporate charter, governed by its
independent Board of Trustees, and with its assets under its own ownership and
control. Therefore, it retains the freedom and individuality of a private
institution, both administratively and academically, setting its own standards
for admissions, awarding of degrees, faculty qualifications, teaching, and
staff hiring.[c]

The University's Board of Trustees maintains ultimate legal authority,
governance, and responsibility for the university but specifically reserves
authority over selecting the university's Chancellor; approval of major
policies, particularly those related to the fiduciary responsibilities of the
board; and the definition of the university's mission and goals. It is made up
of 36 voting members: Chancellor, 17 Term Trustees elected by the board, 6
Alumni Trustees elected by the board on nomination from the Alumni Association
Board of Directors, and 12 Commonwealth trustees. The Governor of
Pennsylvania, the President Pro Tempore of the Pennsylvania Senate, and the
Speaker of the Pennsylvania House of Representatives each appoints four of the
12 Commonwealth trustees. Additional non-voting trustees include 14 Special
Trustees and additional Emeritus Trustees selected by the board. Non-voting
ex-officio members include the Governor of Pennsylvania, the Secretary of the
Commonwealth of Pennsylvania, the Chief Executive of Allegheny County, and the
Mayor of Pittsburgh. There are three or more regular meetings of the Board of
Trustees per year.[85]

The Board of Trustees selects the university's Chancellor, who doubles as the
chief academic officer and the chief executive of the university as well as
serving as an ex officio voting member of the Board of Trustees. The
Chancellor is delegated with general administrative, academic, and management
authority over the university. Under the Chancellor are the Provost and Senior
Vice Chancellor, the Senior Vice Chancellor for Health Sciences, the deans of
the various schools, the presidents of the regional campuses, department
chairs, and the directors of University centers and institutes.[85] The
university is accredited by the Middle States Association of Colleges and
Schools.[3]

## Academics[edit]

Throughout its history, Pitt has been committed to a liberal arts education
with a well-rounded curriculum in the arts, sciences, and humanities.[24] Pitt
has an increasing emphasis on undergraduate research experience and for
providing real-world opportunities such as co-ops and internships.[86]
Undergraduate degrees can be earned as Bachelor of Arts, Bachelor of Science,
and Bachelor of Philosophy. Along with providing certificate programs,
graduate level master's, professional, and doctoral degrees are also awarded.
Pitt has also initiated a University-wide Outside the Classroom Curriculum
(OCC) that includes a structured series of extracurricular programs and
experiences designed to complement students' academic studies and help develop
personal attributes and professional skills.[87] Students who complete the OCC
requirements receive an OCC "transcript" and a green cord of distinction to
wear at commencement.[88] Pitt also emphasizes excellence in teaching and
public education by its graduate students through offering several free
workshops and certification programs such as a pedagogy certification
badge[89] and a semester-long public education mentorship program.[90]

The freshman level entry schools include the Dietrich School of Arts and
Sciences, the College of Business Administration, the Swanson School of
Engineering, and the School of Nursing.

### International studies[edit]

The Indian Classroom, one of 30 Nationality Rooms in the Cathedral of Learning

Pitt's history of commitment to international education is illustrated by its
unique collection of 30 Nationality Rooms on the first and third floors of the
Cathedral of Learning. As a further demonstration of this commitment, Pitt is
one of the country's leading producers of both Fulbright scholars and Peace
Corps volunteers[74][91] and one of fewer than 20 American universities to
claim five or more area studies programs that have been competitively
designated as National Resource Centers by the U.S. Department of
Education.[92]

Pitt's National Resource Centers include Asian, European, Latin American,
Russian and East European, and Global studies,[93] as well as Pitt's
International Business Center.[92] In addition, Pitt's Asian Studies Center
has been awarded status as a Confucius Institute by the Chinese Ministry of
Education.[94][95] Further, Pitt is home to one of just ten European Union
Centers of Excellence in the U.S., funded by the European Commission.[96]

The University Center for International Studies (UCIS) coordinates
international education curricula, centers on topical specializations in
international studies, and the centers for area studies, including the
National Resource Centers, among existing faculty and departments throughout
the university. It does not confer degrees, but awards certificates of
attainment to degree candidates in the university's schools and also operates
certificate programs in African Studies (undergraduate) and in Global Studies
(undergraduate & graduate).[97] UCIS also operates the Study Abroad
Office,[98] Nationality Rooms and Intercultural Exchange Programs.[99]

Pitt's study abroad program, under the auspices of UCIS, helps to facilitate
student study in over a hundred different countries, and oversees a variety of
programs including the Panther Programs, which are course taught abroad that
have been developed and are accompanied by faculty of the university; two-way
exchange agreements with foreign institutions; and Pitt-recognized, third-
party exchange programs.[100] The university also offers several study abroad
scholarships, including those through the Nationality Rooms program.[101] In
addition, following the decision to end a 24-year sponsorship of the Semester
at Sea program due to academic, administrative and safety concerns,[102] Pitt
has created a Multi-region Academic Program (PittMAP) that involves
international travel, accompanied by university faculty, to three different
continents for the comparative study of one of six rotating global study
themes.[103][104] Further, Pitt's Swanson School of Engineering has also
established a joint engineering institute and program with Sichuan University
in Chengdu,[105] and Pitt's School of Medicine has established an exchange
program for biomedical research students with Tsinghua University in Beijing,
China.[106]

### Rankings[edit]

University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[107] |  35  
_Forbes_[108] |  154  
_U.S. News& World Report_[109] |  68  
_Washington Monthly_[110] |  136  
Global  
_ARWU_[111] |  68  
_QS_[112] |  100  
_Times_[113] |  100  
_U.S. News& World Report_[114] |  48  
  
The Center for Measuring University Performance has ranked Pitt 9th in the top
tier of U.S. research universities nationwide according to its 2015 annual
report.[7]

In its 2018 rankings, _U.S. News& World Report_ ranked Pitt 26th in comparison
to other public universities in the United States and tied for 68th among all
national universities.[8] _Princeton Review_ placed Pitt among its "Best Value
Public Colleges",[14] while _Kiplinger_ rated Pitt the best value in
Pennsylvania and thirty-sixth best nationally for out-of-state students among
public universities in their 2016 rankings.[13] The 2017 _Wall Street
Journal/Times Higher Education_ college rankings of American universities
ranked Pitt 75th overall, and the No. 1 public college in the Northeast.[115]

In worldwide evaluations of universities, _Newsweek_ ranked Pitt 37th in its
"The Top 100 Global Universities."[116] Pitt ranked 48th worldwide (31st in
the U.S.) in the 2016 Center for World University Rankings.[117] Pitt is also
ranked 68th worldwide (and 35th in the U.S.) in the 2017 _Academic Ranking of
World Universities_. Pitt ranked 100th globally in the 2017/18 _QS World
University Rankings_. Pitt ranks 25th of all universities in the world for the
impact and performance of its 2016 scientific public publications according to
the Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities produced
by the Higher Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan
(HEEACT).[12] Pitt ranks as the 42nd best higher education research
institution worldwide according to SCImago Institutions Rankings' 2016 World
Report.[118] Other world rankings include 29th in the world in the latest
ranking by the Research Center for Chinese Science Evaluation at Wuhan
University,[119] 42nd in the world in the 2017 Webometrics rankings,[120] and
42nd in the world according to both the 2006 G-Factor International University
Ranking[121] as well as the Russian-based 2009 Global University Ranking.[11]

In addition to its academic rankings, Pitt has also been recognized for its
positive campus atmosphere, with The Princeton Review rating Pitt as having
the 8th happiest student body and the 11th best quality of life in the nation
in 2010.[122]

The 52 feet (16 m) high, half acre (2,000 m²) Commons Room of the Cathedral of
Learning serves as a major study and event space for the university and its
students

Many of university's individual schools, departments, and programs are highly
regarded in their particular field as evidenced by the number of Pitt programs
that were ranked in the latest National Research Council rankings.[123]
Particularly well regarded programs include Pitt's Department of Philosophy,
which has long been renowned in the U.S. and worldwide, and is especially
strong in the areas of mathematical and philosophical logic, metaphysics,
history and philosophy of science, philosophy of language, philosophy of
mathematics, philosophy of mind and psychology, and semantics.[124][125]

The University of Pittsburgh Schools of the Health Sciences, including
Medicine, Dental, Nursing, ranked 5th nationally,[126] Pharmacy, Public
Health, and Rehabilitation are also all highly ranked and regarded in their
respective fields.[127] In addition, the University of Pittsburgh Medical
Center, is consistently honored as one of America's top hospitals.[68]

The university's Joseph M. Katz School of Business MBA program is ranked first
in the U.S. in "Value for Money," 51st overall in the nation, and its faculty
research is ranked 47th in the world by the 2007 Financial Times ranking.[128]
The Joseph Katz Graduate School consistently ranks high among the public
business schools in the U.S. according to _The Wall Street Journal_.[129]

Pitt's law school faculty has been ranked 21st in the nation based upon
standard objective measures of scholarly impact.[130] Overall Pitt's Law
School is ranked 63rd by The Law School 100,[131] is listed among the nation's
top law schools by The Princeton Review,[132] and is ranked 78th by the 2017
U.S. News & World Report.[133][134]

The University of Pittsburgh School of Social Work's MSW program was ranked
10th in the nation by US News in 2016.[135]

Pitt is home to the Gertrude E. and John M. Petersen Institute of NanoScience
and Engineering, which was ranked second in the nation in 2006 for microscale
and nanoscale research by the leading global trade publication, _Small Times_.
Pitt also has a recognized program in Radio-frequency identification device
(RFID) technology, with its research program rated among the top three in the
world along with MIT and the University of Cambridge in England.[136]

###  Scholars[edit]

Pitt students and faculty have regularly won national and international
scholarships and fellowship awards, including four Rhodes Scholarships since
2006.[137][138] In 2007, in addition to the three national military academies,
Pitt was one of only nine universities, and the only public university, to
claim both Rhodes and Marshall Scholars. Since 1995, Pitt undergraduates have
also won six Marshall Scholarships,[139] five Truman Scholarships,[140] seven
Udall Scholarships, a Churchill Scholarship, a Gates Cambridge
Scholarship,[141] 43 Goldwater Scholarships,[142] 23 Boren Scholarships,[143]
and three Mellon Humanities Fellowships.[144][145]

Pitt is also a leading producer of Fulbright scholars, placing in the top 20
of all universities in the number of student scholars.[146]

Pitt alumni have won awards such as the Nobel Peace Prize, the Nobel Prize in
medicine, the Pulitzer Prize for fiction, the Shaw Prize in medicine, the
Albany Prize in medicine, the Fritz Medal in engineering, the Templeton Prize,
and the Grainger Challenge Prize for sustainability.[74][147]

## Research[edit]

Salk Hall, where Jonas Salk's team performed the research that led to the
first polio vaccine, is also home of the School of Dental Medicine and School
of Pharmacy

Pitt, one of 62 elected members of the Association of American Universities,
had $899 million in research and development expenditures in 2011, ranking
10th among all universities in the United States.[148] Of that amount, $663
million was received from federal sources, the fifth largest amount of federal
research sponsorship among universities and the third most among public
universities.[148][149] Pitt ranked in the top 25 of all universities in the
world for the impact and performance of its scientific public publications,
including in the top ten for clinical medicine, according to the Performance
Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities produced by the Higher
Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan.[12] Pitt is also
ranked 29th in the world based on Essential Science Indicators according to
the Research Center for Chinese Science Evaluation of Wuhan University.[119]
Pitt places much emphasis on undergraduate research and has integrated such
research experience as a key component of its undergraduate experience.[86]

Pitt is a major center of biomedical research; in FY 2013, it ranked sixth in
the nation in competitive peer-reviewed NIH funding allocations,[6] and the
University of Pittsburgh Medical Center ranked 10th among hospitals nationwide
by _USNews_ in 2013.[150]

Pitt neighbors the campus of Carnegie Mellon University (CMU), and in some
cases, buildings of the two universities are intermingled. This helps to
facilitate a myriad of academic and research collaborations between the two
schools,[151] including such projects as the Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center,
the Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse, the Immune Modeling Center, the
Center for the Neural Basis of Cognition, the University of Pittsburgh Cancer
Institute, as well as the National Science Foundation-supported Pittsburgh
Science of Learning Center.[152][153] Further, the universities also offer
multiple dual and joint degree programs such as the Medical Scientist Training
Program, the Molecular Biophysics and Structural Biology Graduate Program, and
the Law and Business Administration program. Some professors hold joint
professorships between the two schools, and students at each university may
take classes at the other (with appropriate approvals).[154] Pitt students and
faculty also have access to the CMU library system, as well as the Carnegie
Library of Pittsburgh, through the Oakland Library Consortium.[155] The two
universities also co-host academic conferences, such as the 2012 Second
Language Research Forum.[156]

## Student life[edit]

### Housing[edit]

Litchfield Towers

Undergraduate student housing comprises both traditional residence halls and
apartment style housing. On the lower campus, the three cylindrical towers of
the Litchfield Towers complex houses the most students on campus and contains
the primary dining facility for the university. The Schenley Quadrangle,
originally serving as one of city's most desirably luxury apartment complexes,
comprises five separate residence halls: Amos, Brackenridge, Bruce, Holland,
and McCormick. Bruce Hall houses many Honors College and Living and Learning
Community (LLC) students, Holland Hall serves as an all female residence, and
Amos Hall serves as the primary home of the university's sororities with each
floor being occupied by a different Greek organization. Ruskin Hall is located
near Clapp Hall and the biological complex. Completed in 2013, Nordenberg Hall
is the newest residence hall houses freshmen. Forbes Hall, located on Forbes
Avenue, houses mainly freshmen involved in LLCs (Living Learning Communities).
Lothrop Hall, originally built as a nursing student residence, houses students
on the medical center complex. Bouquet Gardens offers garden style apartments
mostly to upperclassmen. The Forbes Craig Apartments serve as the primary
residence for Honors College students.

Sutherland Hall on the upper campus is named for legendary Pitt football coach
Jock Sutherland

The upper campus houses Sutherland Hall, home of several Living Learning
Communities, as well as Panther Hall and Irvis Hall, which mainly house
upperclassmen. Various fraternity housing is also found on the upper campus,
as well as the Darragh Street Apartments which house medical students within a
short walk to medical school's Scaife Hall.

Many students, especially upperclassmen, also choose to live off campus in the
nearby South Oakland neighborhood in both university and non-university owned
apartments.

### Traditions[edit]

Walk the Moon performs at Fall Fest 2015

Several traditions have become part of student life at Pitt over the years.
One of the oldest traditions is "Lantern Night", an annual ceremony that
serves as a formal induction for freshman women to university life.[80][71]
The tradition of sliding or stepping on the former home plate of Forbes Field
embedded in the floor of Posvar Hall is performed by students in search of
some good luck.[157][158][159][160] Another good luck tradition involves
rubbing the nose of the Millennium Panther outside the William Pitt Union
prior to exams.[161] Originated by students seeking good luck on exams, this
tradition has further grown into one that is used by the wider university
community when seeking general good fortune, particularly prior to football
games or other athletic contests, and was featured in a national television
advertisement for the 2012 Hyundai Tucson automobile.[162] A romantic
tradition involves the legend stating that if lovers kiss on the steps of
Heinz Memorial Chapel, they are then destined to be married there.[163]
Perhaps the most prestigious tradition involves the Omicron Delta Kappa Walk,
a stone walkway between the Cathedral of Learning and Heinz Chapel that
contains the engraved names of Pitt's Omicron Delta Kappa Senior of the Year
award winners. The walk is the only one of its kind in the country.[164]

Annual traditional events include "Fall Fest",[25] and in the spring, "Bigelow
Bash". These festivals are held by the Pitt Program Council between the
William Pitt Union and the Cathedral of Learning and involve a range of
activities, novelties, and bands.[165] Related to graduation, there is Honors
Convocation, where awards and recognition are bestowed upon students, faculty,
alumni, and staff throughout the schools and departments of the
university.[60] Also, the "Panther Sendoff" is a free annual reception
typically held in Alumni Hall to congratulate each year's graduating class and
wish them well.[166] A free event open to the public, the Nationality Rooms
Open House occurs on a Sunday in early December each year in the Cathedral of
Learning and involves the presentation of the rooms decorated in traditional
holiday styles, day-long performances of dance and song by various ethnic
groups, and food and crafts from many of the nationality room's
committees.[167]

Varsity Walk

Traditions related to athletics include the "Victory Lights", where golden
flood lights illuminate the top of the Cathedral of Learning after every
football victory and select other athletic achievements.[168][169][170] The
Annual Bonfire and Pep Rally which is hosted by the Pitt Program Council and
is held prior to a select football game. Held on the lawn of the Cathedral of
Learning, it often involves the band, cheerleaders, football team, visiting
dignitaries, and giveaways.[168][171] Homecoming, which revolves around
another home football game each year, includes a traditional fireworks and a
laser-light display between the William Pitt Union and the Cathedral of
Learning.[172] This is followed by Casino Night in the union, the football
game, and a homecoming cruise on a Gateway Clipper Party Liner.[173][174][175]
At football games, the "Football Tunnel" occurs where student organizations,
carrying standards, form a tunnel for the football players to run through as
they enter the football field from the locker room;[176] The Varsity Walk, a
walkway between the Cathedral of Learning and Heinz Memorial Chapel, is carved
each year the names of former Pitt athletes (each year since 1950) who have
promoted the university through their athletic (Panther Award) or academic
(Blue-Gold Award) achievements.[177]

"Greek Week" is a yearlong initiative for the Greek organizations on campus to
raise money for different charitable organizations through different events.
The two biggest events each year are the Pitt Dance Marathon and Greek Sing.
Yearlong fundraising activities are also held to support such charitable
organizations such as the Ronald McDonald House, Make a Wish Foundation,
University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, and the Pittsburgh Food Bank.[178]
"E-Week" is a spring celebration organized by the Engineer Student Council for
a week-long series of activities and competitions to demonstrate engineering
skills and foster a spirit of camaraderie. Activities include games such as
Monopoly, Ingenuity, Jeopardy, Assassins, and include a talent show, relay
race, mini-Olympics, and blood drive. The festivities reach climax with a
parade on Friday, a soapbox derby on Saturday, and the "e-ball finale" on
Saturday evening. Each year, a unique theme is chosen. Each engineering
department competes against the others, while some smaller departments join
forces.[179][180]

### Pitt Arts[edit]

Pitt's Stephen Foster Memorial contains two theaters.

_Pitt Arts_ is a program founded by the university in 1997 to encourage
students to explore and connect to the art and cultural opportunities of the
City of Pittsburgh via three programs. _Art Encounters_ provides trips to arts
events for undergrads that include free tickets, transportation, a catered
reception, and encounters with international artists and thinkers. _Free
Visits_ grants undergrad and grad students free admission using their Pitt IDs
to the Carnegie Museum of Art, Carnegie Museum of Natural History, Senator
John Heinz History Center, Phipps Conservatory, Mattress Factory, and the Andy
Warhol Museum.[181][182]

###  Student theater[edit]

Various student theater groups convene at Pitt. _University of Pittsburgh
Stages_ is the production company of the Department of Theatre Arts which puts
public student performances of classic masterpieces, contemporary productions,
and student-directed labs. It also runs the Shakespeare-in-the-Schools which
tours classic theater for K-12 students throughout the Pittsburgh area.[183]
_Friday Nite Improvs_ , Pittsburgh's longest-running theatre show, was started
in 1989 by graduate theatre students. It takes place weekly inside the
Cathedral of Learning's studio theatre.[184] The _Redeye Theatre Project_ is a
festival of one-act plays cast, written, and rehearsed in 24 hours.[185]
Additionally, _Pitt Musical Theater Club_ provides undergraduates the
opportunity to perform in student directed variety shows and musicals. The
club was founded in 2009.[186]

###  Student music[edit]

The Music Building once served as home to the original studio for _Mr. Rogers'
Neighborhood_.

The _Pitt Men's Glee Club_ , founded in 1890, is the oldest extracurricular
club on campus.[187] The club includes both undergraduate and graduate
students from throughout the university. Traditionally, the Glee Club has sung
for a variety of campus-wide and community functions, including graduations,
receptions, alumni gatherings, sporting events, and chancellor's events. The
Glee Club has also participated in national Collegiate Men's Choir festivals
and international tours and music festivals in both the United States and
Europe.[187] _Heinz Chapel Choir_ is an accomplished and internationally
known[188] _a cappella_ choir consisting entirely of Pitt students that has
been performing for over 70 years.[189] The _University of Pittsburgh Women's
Choral Ensemble_ , founded in 2011, is open to all women of the university
including undergraduates, graduate students, and staff. The ensemble leads the
traditional lamplighter processional each fall and performs repertory ranging
from traditional sacred and secular classics to international folk songs,
popular music, and show tunes.[190]

_Pitt Pendulums_ , founded in 1996, is a co-ed a cappella group, the oldest a
cappella group on campus. Other a cappella groups on campus include _C Flat
Run_ , a co-ed group, _Pittch Please_ , an all-male group, _Pitches and Tones_
, a co-ed group, _The Songburghs_ , a co-ed group, and _Sounds Like Treble_ ,
an all-female group, among others. All groups on campus regularly perform in
various on and off-campus functions and are regular competitors in the ICCA's,
the International Championship of Collegiate A Cappella. _Pittch Please_
recently achieved the best result of a Pitt group in the ICCA's, taking first
place at the Great Lakes Quarterfinals in 2015.[191] _Carpathian Ensemble_ ,
founded within the Department of music in 1786, the ensemble performs Gypsy,
Klezmer, Armenian, Moldavian, Ukrainian, and Macedonian music.[192] The
University Gamelan, established in 1995, is the largest Sundanese gamelan
program in the U.S. and has sponsored an artist-in-residency program each year
since 1998.[193]

_University of Pittsburgh Orchestra_ performs several concerts and consists of
music students, students from the university at large, faculty, staff, and
members of the metropolitan community. The orchestra performs not only works
of the standard art music literature, but also new works of student
composers.[194] _Pitt Jazz Ensemble_ , founded in 1969 by saxophonist Dr.
Davis, has performed internationally.[195] _Pitt African Music and Dance
Ensemble_ , founded in 1983 by a Ghanaian ethnomusicologist Dr. Willie O.
Anku, specializes in music and dances from Africa. Under the direction of J.
S. Kofi Gbolonyo, it presents a range of African artistic expressions
including music, dance, drama and visual arts.[196] _Pitt Band_ , founded in
1911, is the varsity marching band of the University of Pittsburgh and
performs at various athletic and other University events.[197]

### Student media[edit]

  * **WPTS-FM** is a non-commercial radio station owned by the University of Pittsburgh, and offers a mix of student-run programming. The station operates at 92.1 MHz with an ERP of 16 watts, and is licensed to Pittsburgh.[198]
  * _**JURIST**_ is the world's only law-school-based, comprehensive, legal news and research service staffed by a mostly volunteer team of part-time law student reporters, editors and Web developers. It is led by law professor Bernard Hibbitts at the University of Pittsburgh School of Law.[199]
  * _**The Pitt News**_ is an independent, student-written, and student-managed newspaper for the University's Oakland (main) campus. Founded in 1908, it is now published Monday through Friday during the school year and Wednesdays during the summer. It circulates 14,000 copies for each issue published.[200]

Student media and other organizations are largely headquartered within the
William Pitt Union, seen here with the Millennium Panther

  * _**The Pittiful News**_ is an independent, student-founded, student-written, student-managed, and student-produced satirical and humor newspaper. It comes out on the last Friday of each month during the school year in print and throughout the entire calendar year online.[201]
  * **UPTV (University of Pittsburgh Television)** is a student-managed, student-produced, closed-circuit television station. Students living in campus residence halls or university operated-housing can view programming on Channel 21.[202]
  * _**Three Rivers Review**_ and _**Collision**_ are two undergraduate, bi-annual, literary journals publishing both poetry and prose.[203]
  * _**The Pittsburgh Undergraduate Review**_ is a multidisciplinary journal showcasing undergraduate research.,[204]

_Pitt Tonight_ earned the university its first College Emmy nominations in
2016.

  * _**Pitt Political Review**_ is a student-created, student-written publication of the University Honors College. PPR, as it is called, provides a venue for serious discussion of politics and policy issues in a nonpartisan way.[205]
  * _**Blackline**_ is a student-created, student-written publication of the Black Action Society. Blackline features both news articles and creative pieces such as poetry to call attention to problems, programs, and activities that affect Black students at Pitt.[206]
  * _**The Original Magazine**_ is a nonprofit, semiannual arts and culture publication based at, and partially funded by, the University of Pittsburgh, that aims to both bring and publicize accessible art and creative writing to Pittsburgh.[207]
  * _**Pitt Tonight**_ is an American college late-night talk show on the University of Pittsburgh campus.[208] The show premiered on December 14, 2015, and is produced entirely by students. It is the first large-scale late night production on the school’s campus – consisting of more than 70 staff members – with its creator Jesse Irwin serving as the first host.[209] The show also stars a sidekick and house band _The Allies of the Boulevard_ , and is produced and written entirely by Pitt students. The show tapes in theaters inside the Cathedral of Learning and the Stephen Foster Memorial in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.[210] The program is taped once per month in front of a live studio audience. The show opens with a topical monologue, then transitions into a comedic desk piece, guest interviews/sketches/games, and concludes with a musical performance. More than anything, Pitt Tonight has impacted the university’s utilization of multimedia since its 2015 premiere, and in addition, moments from the series have gone viral, including its challenge of Jimmy Fallon to speed-eat a Primanti Brothers’ sandwich.[211][212][213][214] The show has been nominated for two Mid-Atlantic Emmy Awards,[215][216] and won one College Broadcasters Inc. award for Best General Entertainment Program.

### Student organizations[edit]

There are over 350 student clubs and organizations at the University of
Pittsburgh. all sizes and covering all manner of interests.[217] Some of the
larger ones are:

  * **Behavioral Economics Club** , one of the first student organizations in a major university devoted entirely to the topic of behavioral economics. The group is composed of undergraduate students from a variety of disciplines such as economics, finance, psychology, actuarial mathematics, statistics, and marketing.
  * **Black Action Society** , the recognized student organization for promoting the cultural, educational, political, and social needs of black students at the university. It comprises nine committees including the publication of the student-run publication _BlackLine_ as well as community outreach, political action, and programing.[218] BAS has hosted lectures by such figures as Cornel West,[219] Spike Lee,[220] and Carol Moseley Braun.[221]
  * **Blue and Gold Society** , founded in 1991, is a group of undergraduate student leaders chosen as liaisons between the student community and the Pitt Alumni Association.[222]
  * **Catholic Newman Club** , founded in 1915, is the third oldest existing student organization on campus.[223] The club works in conjunction with the Pittsburgh Oratory of Saint Philip Neri \- which offers daily mass and confession times as well as perpetual Eucharistic adoration[224] \- and the Fellowship of Catholic University Students to provide events that offer students a deeper look into the Catholic faith. Students often engage in service opportunities with various charitable organizations.
  * **Graduate and Professional Student Government (GPSG)** , the student government that represents the interests of all graduate and professional students and serves as the umbrella organization for all of the graduate/professional school student governments. GPSG's mission is to ensure that the concerns of these students are heard and also provides services and programs such travel grants, legal and financial consulting, and social functions.[225]
  * **Hillel: Jewish Student Union (JSU)** , a pluralistic Jewish community that serves all Pitt undergraduates. Programs take place on campus and at the Hillel Jewish University Center at 4607 Forbes Avenue. Events include holiday, interfaith, Jewish education, social action, arts and cultural programming as well as no-fee weekly Shabbat services and dinner every Friday night.[226]

The Oakland Zoo, Pitt basketball's student cheering club

  * **Oakland Zoo** , the student athletic cheering section, an officially recognized student club. At over 2,000 members, it is the largest such group at the university. The group helps participate with the Athletic Department and Pitt Student Government Board in setting student ticket policy as well as organizing special student events.[227]
  * The **Pitt Pathfinders** , student recruiters employed by the Office of Admissions of Financial Aid. They recruit prospective students by giving campus tours, attending on-and-off campus recruitment programs, and by contacting admitted students through phone and the Internet. While Pathfinder is a paid position, it is also a student organization.[228]
  * **Pitt Program Council** , the all-campus programming organization at the university. Comprising eight student committees, a variety of programs and festivities are planned and sponsored including Fall Fest, Bigelow Bash, Homecoming Laser and Fireworks Show, as well as trips to New York City, Cedar Point, Spring break in Panama City Beach, FL. Other activities include art gallery exhibits, films, horseback riding, sports tournaments, lectures, fitness and dance classes, and Black and White Ball.[229]
  * **Student Government Board (SGB)** , the governing body that provides undergraduate students with representation to the university administration, presenting their needs, interests, and concerns. An important aspect of the SGB is allocation of the student activities fee, which provides money to over 350 student organizations at the University of Pittsburgh. The SGB has ten standing committees that address various aspects of campus life, including diversity, freshman involvement, and governmental relations.[230]
  * **Quo Vadis** , a student organization that conducts guided tours and interpretations of the Cathedral of Learning's 30 Nationality Rooms.[231]
  * **Rainbow Alliance** , a student advocacy group for Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transgender, Queer, and Allied students. Among other activities, Pitt Rainbow Alliance holds an Annual Drag Show to raise money for Pittsburgh AIDS Task Force.[232]
  * **University of Pittsburgh Mock Trial** , a yearlong extracurricular activity open to Pitt undergraduates that provides an opportunity to practice litigation through a series of team-based mock trial competitions. Pitt Mock Trial has qualified for American Mock Trial Association post-season tournaments each of the last six years, finishing in the fifth overall place at the 2008 National Championship Tournament.[233][234]
  * **William Pitt Debating Union** , a co-curricular program and hub for a wide range of debating activities, including intercollegiate policy debate, public debate, and debate outreach. 1981 National Debate Tournament champions,[235] it has qualified for the National Debate Tournament forty times[236] and is one of the oldest organizations of its kind in the nation, growing from the University's Division of Public Speaking in 1912.[237]

### Greek life[edit]

Hillman Library

There are 39 fraternities and sororities on the campus. As of 2008, the
University of Pittsburgh Greek system raised $285,000 for the University of
Pittsburgh Cancer Institute. The effort was part of the Pittsburgh Greek
system's five-year pledge to raise $500,000 for the cancer center.[178] They
are currently participating in a three-year pledge to raise money for the
Cystic Fibrosis Foundation.

Fraternities | Sororities  
---|---  
  
  * Alpha Epsilon Pi
  * Alpha Phi Alpha
  * Alpha Tau Omega
  * Beta Theta Pi
  * Delta Chi
  * Delta Phi
  * Delta Sigma Phi
  * Delta Tau Delta
  * Iota Nu Delta
  * Kappa Sigma
  * Kappa Alpha Tau
  * Lambda Chi Alpha
  * Phi Beta Sigma
  * Pi Lambda Phi
  * Phi Delta Theta
  * Pi Kappa Alpha
  * Pi Kappa Phi

|

  * Phi Gamma Delta
  * Phi Kappa Theta
  * Sigma Alpha Epsilon
  * Sigma Alpha Mu
  * Sigma Beta Rho
  * Sigma Chi
  * Sigma Phi Epsilon
  * Tau Kappa Epsilon
  * Triangle Fraternity
  * Zeta Beta Tau

|

  * Alpha Delta Pi
  * Alpha Epsilon Phi
  * Alpha Kappa Alpha
  * Chi Omega
  * Delta Delta Delta
  * Delta Phi Epsilon
  * Delta Zeta
  * Kappa Delta

|

  * Kappa Kappa Gamma
  * Phi Sigma Rho
  * Sigma Delta Tau
  * Sigma Epsilon Chi
  * Sigma Sigma Sigma
  * Theta Phi Alpha
  * Theta Nu Xi
  * Zeta Sigma Chi

  
  
#### Annual Greek life events[edit]

  * Greek Week
  * Greek Sing
  * Pitt Dance Marathon

## Athletics[edit]

Main article: Pittsburgh Panthers

Cheering on the Pitt football team has traditionally been one of the most
celebrated activities at the university, as depicted in this cover art from a
1915 game program.

The University of Pittsburgh's athletic teams, referred to as the "Pittsburgh
Panthers" or "Pitt Panthers," include 19 university-sponsored varsity teams at
the highest level of competitive collegiate athletics in the United States:
the National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) Division I (NCAA Division
1 Football Bowl Subdivision (FBS) for american football).[238]

Varsity men's sports sponsored by the university are baseball, basketball,
cross country, football, soccer, swimming and diving, indoor track and field,
outdoor track and field, and wrestling; while sponsored women's varsity sports
include basketball, cross country, gymnastics, soccer, softball, swimming and
diving, tennis, indoor track and field, outdoor track and field, and
volleyball.[239] All varsity sports teams compete as members of the Atlantic
Coast Conference (ACC) since the 2013-14 season, with the exception of the
gymnastics team competing in the East Atlantic Gymnastics League (EAGL).[240]
The university also maintains membership in the Eastern College Athletic
Conference (ECAC).[241]

Scholastically, during 2012 calendar year, out of approximately 450 Pitt
varsity student athletes, 350 had term grade point averages exceeding 3.0,
including 16 that had a perfect average of 4.0, and 174 were named Big East
Conference Academic All-Stars or placed on the all-academic Big East football
team.[242]

There are also approximately 28 additional athletic teams that compete at the
non-varsity club sports level.[243]

Pitt's highest-profile athletic programs, American football and men's
basketball, are consistently competitive. Pitt has been regularly ranked as
having one of the best combinations of football and basketball programs by
multiple sports media outlets,[244][245] including CBS Sports,[246] ESPN,[247]
and _Sports Illustrated_.[248]

In the fall of 1909, the University of Pittsburgh was the first college or
university to adopt the panther ( _Puma concolor_ ) as its mascot.[31] Popular
as photo sites, there are ten representations of Panthers in and about Pitt's
campus, and ten more painted fiberglass panthers placed around the campus by
the Pitt Student Government. These fiberglass panther structures are given to
a campus group for a year and painted by the group to reflect their
interests.[249] The oldest representations are four panthers that guard each
corner of the Panther Hollow bridge.[250] Other Oakland locations include both
inside and in front of the William Pitt Union,[251][252] outside the Petersen
Events Center,[253] "Pitt the Panther" on the carousel in Schenley Plaza,[254]
the Panther head fountain on the front of the Cathedral of Learning, and the
Pitt Panther statue outside Heinz Field on Pittsburgh's North Side.[255]

### Football[edit]

Pitt Football playing Notre Dame at Heinz Field in 2015

Main article: Pittsburgh Panthers football

Traditionally the most popular sport at the University of Pittsburgh, football
has been played at the highest levels at the university since 1890. During the
more than 100 years of competitive football at Pitt, the university has helped
pioneer the sport by, among other things, instituting the use of numbers on
jerseys[256] and desegregating the Sugar Bowl. Some of college football's all-
time greatest coaches and players have plied their trade at Pitt, including
Pop Warner, Jock Sutherland, Marshall Goldberg, Joe Schmidt, Mike Ditka, Tony
Dorsett, Hugh Green, Mark May, Dan Marino, Bill Fralic, Curtis Martin,
Darrelle Revis, Russ Grimm, LeSean McCoy and Larry Fitzgerald. Among the top
schools in terms of all-time wins, Pitt teams have claimed nine National
Championships[257] and boast 88 players that have been chosen as first-team
All-Americans.[258]

### Basketball[edit]

Pitt basketball in the Petersen Events Center

Main articles: Pittsburgh Panthers men's basketball and Pittsburgh Panthers
women's basketball

Pitt first sponsored varsity men's basketball in 1905 and became an early
national power after winning two Helms Foundation National Championships in
1927–28 and 1929–30. Those teams, coached by the innovative and legendary
Naismith Hall of Fame inductee "Doc" Carlson, were led by National Player of
the Year and Hall of Famer Charlie Hyatt. Following a Final Four appearance in
1941, Pitt appeared in a handful of NCAA tournaments throughout the 1950s,
1960s, and 1970s, including an Elite Eight appearance in 1974 led by All-
American Billy Knight. Pitt joined the Big East Conference in 1982, and by the
end of the decade had secured a pair of Big East regular season championships
led by All-Americans Charles Smith and Jerome Lane. In the 2000s (decade), led
by coach Jamie Dixon, an era of consistent national and conference
competitiveness has been achieved, including reaching the number one ranking
in various national polls. Since 2002, Pitt has appeared in eleven NCAA
tournaments advancing to five Sweet Sixteens and an Elite Eight. During this
time, prior to joining the Atlantic Coast Conference in 2013, Pitt and has won
three Big East regular season championships, two Big East Tournament
Championships, and has advanced to six Big East Tournament Championship
games.[259]

The Pittsburgh Panthers women's varsity basketball program started during the
1914–1915 school year and lasted until 1927 before going on hiatus until 1970.
Pitt's women's team has posted several NCAA, NWIT, and EAIAW tournament
appearances. Led head coach Agnus Berenato, Pitt has played in post-season
tournaments each of the last five seasons, including three NCAA Tournaments
appearances where it advanced to the Sweet Sixteen in 2008 and 2009.[260]

### Olympic sports[edit]

Official athletics logo

See also: Pittsburgh Panthers baseball, Pittsburgh Panthers softball,
Pittsburgh Panthers volleyball, and Pittsburgh Panthers wrestling

Pitt has a long history of success in other intercollegiate athletic events.
In Track and Field, Pitt has produced several Olympic and NCAA champions such
as 800 m Olympic gold medalist John Woodruff, two-time 110 m hurdle Olympic
gold medalist Roger Kingdom, and seven-time NCAA champion and 2005 World
Champion triple jumper Trecia-Kaye Smith.[261] The wrestling program has a
rich history and is among the leaders in producing individual national
champions with 16.[262] Pitt's women's volleyball team, one of the winningest
program in the nation,[263] won 11 conference championships while a member of
the Big East, and appeared in 11 NCAA tournaments since the program began in
1974.[264] Pitt's swimming and diving teams have produced several Olympians
and won 19 men's and nine women's Big East Championships while a member of
that conference. Pitt women's gymnastics is a regular qualifier for the NCAA
Northeast Regional Championship.[265] Baseball, Pitt's oldest varsity sport,
has produced several major league players and has reached the national 25
repeatedly, including in 2013.[266] Other varsity sports have also competed at
national and conference championships and include cross country, soccer,
softball, and tennis.[239][267]

### Support groups[edit]

The University of Pittsburgh Varsity Marching Band was founded in 1911 and
performs at athletic and other events. The Pitt cheerleading squad has won
multiple cheerleading national championships, including three straight from
1992 to 1994. The Pitt dance team also has been competitive in national
competitions.[268][269]

## People[edit]

### Faculty[edit]

Alumni Hall, home to the Office of Admissions and Financial Aid, Alumni
Relations, and more.

Main article: List of University of Pittsburgh faculty

University faculty have been pioneers in such fields as astronomy (John
Brashear), aviation (Samuel Pierpont Langley), virology (Jonas Salk), and
psychology (Benjamin Spock), in addition to being given popular titles such as
the Father of Radio Broadcasting (Reginald Fessenden), the Father of Project
Management (David I. Cleland), the Father of CPR (Peter Safar), and the Father
of Organ Transplantation (Thomas Starzl).

In addition to faculty, there have been 31 university heads for the University
of Pittsburgh. Beginning in the institution's academy days, the head of the
school was referred to as Principal, a title that was retained until 1872 when
it was changed to Chancellor by an alteration to the university's charter.
This title of Chancellor has lasted except for a brief change during Wesley
Posvar's administration when it was transiently switched to President.[270]

### Alumni[edit]

Main article: List of University of Pittsburgh alumni

Three Pitt alumni have been awarded the Nobel Prize: Paul Lauterbur '62 for
his work in magnetic resonance imaging,[271] Philip Hench '20 for discovery of
the hormone cortisone,[272] and Wangari Maathai '66 for founding the Green
Belt Movement.[273] Other alumni have also been pioneers in their respective
fields, including John Wistar Simpson '41, a pioneer in nuclear energy,[274]
and Vladimir Zworykin '26, who has been regarded as the "father of
television".[275] National Medal of Science winners include Bert W. O'Malley
'59 & '63, a pioneer in steroid hormones,[276] and Herbert Boyer '63,
Genentech founder and biotech pioneer;[277] while Leonard Baker '52[278] and
Michael Chabon '84[279] have won the Pulitzer Prize.

Pitt alumni who have excelled in professional sports include Pro Football Hall
of Fame inductees Dan Marino '83,[280] Mike Ditka '61,[281] and Tony Dorsett
'77.[282] Basketball Hall of Fame inductees include pioneering coach Clifford
Carlson '18 & '20[283] while others, such as John Woodruff '39 and Roger
Kingdom '02, have won Olympic gold.[284]

  * Wangari Maathai '66  
2004 Nobel Peace Prize

  * Gene Kelly '33  
Academy Award Winner

  * Michael Chabon '84  
2001 Pulitzer Prize Winner

  * Orrin Hatch '62  
US Senator from Utah

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** This figure reflects the total number of faculty at the Pittsburgh campus only. 391 additional faculty serve the four regional campuses for a university-wide total of 5,271 faculty members.
  2. **^** This enrollment figure reflects the total headcount of full-time and part-time undergraduate and graduate students attending classes at the University of Pittsburgh-Pittsburgh Campus in Fall 2014 only. An additional 6,317 full-time and part-time undergraduate students attend the university across the four regional campuses for a university-wide headcount of 34,934 total students, 24,217 of which are undergraduates.
  3. **^** Upon joining the Commonwealth System of Higher Education in 1966, the University of Pittsburgh legally remained a private entity and in practice, retained the administrative and academic freedom of a private institution. It sets its own standards for student admission and retention, faculty, and teaching. Its assets remain in the hands of the corporation, its employees are employed by the corporation, and its affairs are governed by an independent Board of Trustees.[81] In-state tuition is subsidized by the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania and the state provides approximately 11% of its operating budget.[82] The University of Pittsburgh is categorized as a public university in the Carnegie Foundation Classifications[83] and is typically listed as a public university in third party publications.[84] For simplicity, Pitt sometimes refers to itself a "public university".

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "PA Higher/Adult Ed.: State-Related Universities". Pennsylvania Department of Education. April 3, 2008. Archived from the original on September 26, 2006. Retrieved  July 6, 2008. 
  2. **^** As of June 30, 2016. "U.S. and Canadian Institutions Listed by Fiscal Year (FY) 2016 Endowment Market Value and Change in Endowment Market Value from FY 2015 to FY 2016" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers and Commonfund Institute. 2017. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "University of Pittsburgh Fact Book 2017" (PDF). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. 2017. Retrieved August 25, 2017. 
  4. **^** "Graphic Standards | University of Pittsburgh" (PDF). Retrieved 2017-05-01. 
  5. **^** "PHMC Historical Markers Search" (Searchable database). _Pennsylvania Historical and Museum Commission_. Commonwealth of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  January 25, 2014. 
  6. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Institution 2013: Ranking Tables of National Institutes of Health (NIH) Award Data 2013" (Excel spreadsheet). Blue Ridge Institute for Medical Research. October 21, 2014. Retrieved December 7, 2014. 
  7. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Capaldi, Elizabeth D.; Lombardi, John V.; Abbey, Craig W.; Craig, Diane D., eds. (2015). "The Top American Research Universities: 2009 Annual Report" (PDF). Arizona State University, Tempe, AZ: The Center for Measuring University Performance. pp. 8 & 16. Retrieved April 15, 2017. 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "U.S. News Best Colleges Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. 2017. Retrieved April 15, 2017. 
  9. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2015". ShanghaiRanking Consultancy. Retrieved  October 16, 2015. 
  10. **^** "Top 200: The Times Higher Education World University Rankings 2010–2011". Times Higher Education. 2011. Retrieved  June 26, 2011. 
  11. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Global universities ranking: The 1st hundred" (PDF). Global University Ranking. 2009. Retrieved August 24, 2009. 
  12. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "HEEACT 2016 Ranking Top 100". Higher Education Evaluation & Accreditation Council of Taiwan (HEEACT). 2016.  
  13. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Kiplinger's Best Values in Public Colleges". Kiplinger.com. January 2011. Retrieved  January 19, 2011. 
  14. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Harvith, John (February 28, 2011). "Pitt Named "Best Value" University by Princeton Review". _Pitt Chronicle_. **12** (8). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  February 28, 2011. 
  15. **^** Alberts 1986, p. 453.
  16. **^** _Annual catalog of the Western University of Pennsylvania, Year Ending 1905_. Western University of Pennsylvania. 1905. p. 27. Retrieved  December 21, 2009. 
  17. **^** "Early Schools". _Pittsburgh School Bulletin_. Pittsburgh, PA: Pittsburgh Teachers Association, Inc.: 25 May 1928. Retrieved  December 22, 2009. 
  18. **^** Starrett, Agnes Lynch (1937). _Through one hundred and fifty years: the University of Pittsburgh_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh Press. p. 26.  
  19. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Rites of Passage". _The History of Women at Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh. 2003. Retrieved  April 15, 2017. 
  20. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ "The Owl". University of Pittsburgh. 1910. p. 7. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  21. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Alberts 1986.
  22. **^** Dahlinger, Charles W. "Rev. John Taylor: the first rector of Trinity Episcopal Church of Pittsburgh and his commonplace book". p. 10. Retrieved April 28, 2008. 
  23. **^** "The Celebration of the One Hundred and Twenty-Fifth Anniversary: History of the University". _University of Pittsburgh Bulletin_. **8** (21): 4–5. November 1, 1912. Retrieved  January 20, 2010. 
  24. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Alberts 1986, p. 17.
  25. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Singer, Drew (September 6, 2008). "Students celebrate Fall Fest". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  26. **^** "Pitt History – 1893: William Hunter Dammond". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  27. **^** "Pitt History – 1898: Margaret and Stella Stein". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  28. **^** "Pitt History – 1906: Reginald Fessenden". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  29. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Owl". Western University of Pennsylvania. 1909. p. 10. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  30. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Alberts 1986, pp. 60–61.
  31. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "The Panther". Pittsburgh Panthers. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  32. **^** "The Nationality Rooms – rooms in planning". Pitt.edu. Retrieved  September 13, 2011. 
  33. **^** "Remembering Polio: Celebrating the 50th Anniversary of the Salk Polio Vaccine". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  34. **^** "The Shot Heard 'Round the World". University of Pittsburgh School of Pharmacy. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  35. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Financial Report Fiscal Year 2016" (PDF). 
  36. **^** "Pitt Ranked 4th Among Public Universities, 10th Among All U.S. Colleges and Universities With Endowments in Excess of $1 Billion in The FY 2006 Percentage Increase in Its Endowment". _University of Pittsburgh_. January 24, 2007.  
  37. **^** "Pitt Giving: Office of Institutional Advancement". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  38. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Announces 12-Year Facilities Plan To Support Programmatic Direction". _University of Pittsburgh_. May 17, 2007. Retrieved  June 21, 2007. 
  39. **^** "Pitt elects Gallagher as its 18th chancellor". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Retrieved  April 6, 2014. 
  40. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "PENNSYLVANIA – Allegheny County – Historic Districts". National Register of Historic Places. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  41. **^** Boyle, Justin (2013). "10 College Campuses With Architecture You Have to See to Believe". _WorldWideLearn_. Quinstreet, Inc. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  42. **^** Steele, Bruce (October 24, 2002). "Weighing in on Pitt's eclectic architecture". _University Times_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  43. **^** "Pitt Wins Grounds Services Award". _Pitt Chronicle_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. December 6, 2010. Retrieved  December 7, 2010. 
  44. **^** "PGMS Green Star Awards: Urban University Grounds: University of Pittsburgh". Professional Grounds Management Society. 2007. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  45. **^** "PGMS News – PGMS Salutes Grounds Management Excellence; College and University Grounds Lead the Way". Professional Grounds Management Society. 2003. Retrieved  August 13, 2008. 
  46. **^** "University of Pittsburgh - Buses & Shuttles: Routes & Schedules". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  47. **^** "PENNSYLVANIA – Allegheny County". National Register of Historic Places. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  48. **^** "Marker Details: Allegheny Observatory". ExplorePAhistory.com. Retrieved  September 6, 2008. 
  49. **^** "Marker Details: Forbes Field". ExplorePAhistory.com. Retrieved  September 7, 2009. 
  50. **^** "Marker Details: Barney Dreyfuss (1865–1932)". ExplorePAhistory.com. Retrieved  September 7, 2009. 
  51. **^** "Salk Polio Vaccine – Pennsylvania Historical Markers on Waymarking.com". Waymarking.com. Retrieved  September 7, 2009. 
  52. **^** "Stephen C. Foster Memorial – Pennsylvania Historical Markers on Waymarking.com". Waymarking.com. Retrieved  September 7, 2009. 
  53. **^** "V.F.W. – Pennsylvania Historical Markers on Waymarking.com". Waymarking.com. Retrieved  September 7, 2009. 
  54. **^** "Marker Details: University of Pittsburgh". ExplorePAhistory.com. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  55. **^** "Marker Details: Meadowcroft Rockshelter". ExplorePAhistory.com. Retrieved  September 7, 2009. 
  56. **^** "Pittsburgh History and Landmarks Foundation: PHLF Plaques & Registries". January 27, 2007. Archived from the original on January 27, 2007. Retrieved  February 25, 2008. 
  57. **^** "Pittsburgh History & Landmarks Foundation announces Historic Building and Landscape Designations". June 27, 2007. Retrieved  February 25, 2008. 
  58. **^** Sajna, Mike (January 23, 1997). "Hearing set on historic landmark nomination for two Pitt buildings". _University Times_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  October 10, 2010. 
  59. **^** "Campus Tour: Soldiers & Sailors Memorial Hall & Museum". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  60. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Honors Convocation 2013". University of Pittsburgh. 2013. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  61. **^** "Pitt Arts: Free Visits Program". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  62. **^** "The Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology". University of Pittsburgh, The Department of Biological Sciences. February 20, 2008. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  63. **^** "Pitt Honors College Receives 4,700 Acres of Wyoming Land Teeming With Dinosaur Fossils". _Pitt Chronicle_. University of Pittsburgh. January 30, 2006. Retrieved  April 30, 2008. 
  64. **^** Collins, Mark; Hayden, Cara J. "Go West". _Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 28, 2008. 
  65. **^** "Petersen Sports Complex". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  January 11, 2010. 
  66. **^** "Facilities". PittsburghPanthers.com. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  67. **^** "Housing Services: Housing Map". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  68. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "UPMC Named to U.S. News & World Report Honor Roll of America's Best Hospitals for the Ninth Time" (Press release). UMPC Media Relations. July 11, 2008. Retrieved  March 14, 2009. 
  69. **^** "UPMC Locations". UPMC. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  70. **^** Dobelle, Evan S. (Fall 2009). "Saviors of Our Cities: 2009 Survey of College & University Civic Partnerships" (PDF). Westfield, MA: Westfield State College: 4. Retrieved December 19, 2010. 
  71. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "CMU, Pitt rate as good neighbors". _University Times_. **39** (1). University of Pittsburgh. August 31, 2006. Retrieved  June 26, 2011. 
  72. **^** "Slideshow: Pittsburgh region's top employers". _Pittsburgh Business Times_. American City Business Journals. July 12, 2013. Retrieved  August 20, 2013. 
  73. **^** Harvith, John (October 12, 2009). "Pitt Is Nation's Top-ranked Public School in 2009 Education-Civic Partnership Survey". _Pitt Chronicle_. **10** (26). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  October 18, 2009. 
  74. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "The 2006 Report of Chancellor Mark A. Nordenberg" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh. June 23, 2006. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 25, 2007. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  75. **^** Stevens, Ashley J.; Toneguzzo, Frances; Bostrom, Dana, eds. (2005). _AUTM U.S. Licensing Survey, FY 2004: A Survey Summary of Technology Licensing (and Related) Performance for U.S. Academic and Nonprofit Institutions, and Technology Investment firms_ (PDF). Northbrook, IL: The Association of University Technology Managers (AUTM). Retrieved September 6, 2009. 
  76. **^** "UPMC Community Benefits Report Fiscal Year 2011: Working Together for a Healthier Community" (PDF). UPMC. June 2012: 27. Retrieved August 20, 2013. 
  77. **^** "University ranks high in Peace Corps volunteers". _University Times_. University of Pittsburgh. **39** (10). January 25, 2007. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  78. **^** "Peace Corps Top Colleges and Universities 2008" (PDF). Peace Corps. September 30, 2007. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  79. **^** Webster, Henry Clay (January 16, 2008). "Pitt up in Peace Corps rankings". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  80. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Nordenberg, Mark (July 8, 2011). "Budget Building in the Face of Historic Cuts". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved January 26, 2013. 
  81. **^** Alberts 1986, p. 343
  82. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Trustees Approve 2008–09 Budget, Set Tuition Rates". University of Pittsburgh: News From Pitt. July 10, 2008. Retrieved  September 25, 2014. 
  83. **^** "Classifications: University of Pittsburgh-Main Campus". The Carnegie Foundation for the Advancement of Teaching. Retrieved  July 15, 2008. 
  84. **^** "Best Colleges Overview: University of Pittsburgh". USNews.com. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  85. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Alberts 1986, p. 63.
  86. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Undergraduate Research". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  87. **^** "Outside the Classroom Curriculum: Your Pitt Pathway". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  February 11, 2009. 
  88. **^** "Pitt to Offer Students Opportunity to Develop Professional Skills Through Extracurricular Experiences in a New Program: Outside the Classroom Curriculum to be implemented this fall". University of Pittsburgh:News From Pitt. August 6, 2008. Retrieved  August 6, 2008. 
  89. **^** "Achievement in Pedagogy Badge". _Pitt University for Teaching and Learning_. 2017. Retrieved  June 16, 2017. 
  90. **^** "Teaching Beyond Higher Ed: The Art of Public Communication". _Pitt University Center for Teaching and Learning_. 2017. Retrieved  June 16, 2017. 
  91. **^** "University Center for International Studies (UCIS)". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  92. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Gill, Cindy (Fall 2007). "The Company We Keep". _Pitt Magazine_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  93. **^** Ritchie, Amanda Leff (August 24, 2010). "Pitt's Global Studies Program Receives First-Time Designation as a National Resource Center by the United States Department of Education". _Pitt Chronicle_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 25, 2010. 
  94. **^** "Chinese Ministry of Education Awards University of Pittsburgh First Confucius Institute in Pennsylvania". _News from Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh. August 1, 2007. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  95. **^** "Confucius Institute at the University of Pittsburgh". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  96. **^** "Current Grantees - EU Centers of Excellence". Delegation of the European Union to the United States of America. Retrieved  August 14, 2013. 
  97. **^** "About UCIS". University of Pittsburgh. August 31, 2006. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  98. **^** "Study Abroad Office". University of Pittsburgh. May 3, 2007. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  99. **^** "about nationality rooms". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  100. **^** "Study Abroad Program Options". Study Abroad Office, University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 25, 2010. 
  101. **^** "Scholarships for Study Abroad". Study Abroad Office, University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 25, 2010. 
  102. **^** Hart, Peter (June 23, 2005). "Provost explains decision to drop Semester at Sea". _University Times_. **37** (21). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 25, 2010. 
  103. **^** "Pitt Map Program". Study Abroad Office, University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 25, 2010. 
  104. **^** Robinet, Jane-Ellen (August 24, 2010). "A New State of Mind: Journey Across Three Continents Shakes Up Students' Visions, Notions About the World". _Pitt Chronicle_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 25, 2010. 
  105. **^** Chute, Eleanor (April 1, 2013). "Pitt announces joint engineering program with China's Sichuan University". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  July 30, 2014. 
  106. **^** "New program to bring Tsinghua University med students to Pitt for research training". _Biotech Week_. via HighBeam  (subscription required). May 18, 2011. Retrieved July 30, 2014. 
  107. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  108. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  109. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  110. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  111. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  112. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  113. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  114. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  115. **^** "Wall Street Journal/Times Higher Education College Rankings 2017". Times Higher Education. Retrieved  November 20, 2016. 
  116. **^** "The Complete List: The Top 100 Global Universities". _Newsweek_. August 10, 2006. Archived from the original on April 3, 2007. Retrieved  June 18, 2007. 
  117. **^** "Center for World University Rankings". Retrieved  April 15, 2017. 
  118. **^** "SCImago Institutions Rankings (SIR): 2009 World Report". SCImago Institutions Rankings. 2009. Retrieved  November 1, 2009. 
  119. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "世界大学科研竞争力排行榜2007 （前500名+中国大学）". Wuhan University. Retrieved  August 24, 2009. 
  120. **^** "Ranking Web of World universities: Top 12000 World Rankings". Madrid, Spain: Cybermetrics Lab. January 2017. Retrieved  April 15, 2017. 
  121. **^** "G-Factor International University Ranking 2006: Top 300". Universitymetrics.com. 2006. Retrieved  August 24, 2009. 
  122. **^** Mucha, Peter (August 3, 2010). "Survey: Penn State drinks, Main Line thinks". _The Philadelphia Inquirer_. Retrieved  August 4, 2010. 
  123. **^** "NRC Rankings in Each of 41 Areas". _Research-Doctorate Programs in the United States: Continuity and Change_. National Research Council. 1995. Retrieved  January 2, 2009. 
  124. **^** Leiter, Brian (November 10, 2006). "Welcome to the 2006–2008 Philosophical Gourmet Report". Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  125. **^** Newton, H. J. "Philosophy". _NRC Rankings in each of the 41 Areas_. Texas A &M University. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  126. **^** "Best Nursing Schools: Master's". _grad-schools.usnews.rankingsandreviews.com_. Retrieved  October 20, 2017. 
  127. **^** Hart, Peter (April 30, 2009). "U.S. News ranks graduate programs". _University Times_. Retrieved  May 1, 2009. 
  128. **^** "Katz School Ranks First in the Nation for MBA Value". _Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business Press Release_. January 29, 2007. Archived from the original on July 7, 2007. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  129. **^** "Pitt's Joseph M. Katz Graduate School of Business' M.B.A. Program Ranks 11th Worldwide Among Public Institutions in The Wall Street Journal/Harris Interactive "Top Business Schools" Report". September 17, 2003.  
  130. **^** Leiter, Brian (September 1, 2007). "Top 35 Law Faculties Based on Scholarly Impact, 2007". Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  131. **^** "Law School 100 – Ranking the Best Law Schools in the United States". LawTV. 2009. Retrieved  April 28, 2009. 
  132. **^** "The Princeton Review: University of Pittsburgh School of Law". The Princeton Review. 2009. Retrieved  April 28, 2009. 
  133. **^** "Best Law Schools". _America's Best Graduate Schools_. U.S. News  & World Report. 2010. Retrieved April 17, 2010. 
  134. **^** "Law School Rankings". USNews. 2016. Retrieved  November 16, 2016. 
  135. **^** "Best Social Work School Rankings". USNews. 2016. Retrieved  July 26, 2016. 
  136. **^** "RFID Lowdown, the on-line RFID new publication RFID Lowdown". 2007. Retrieved  July 1, 2007. 
  137. **^** "Chancellor's Report: Pitt Striving to Attain Ever-Higher Levels of Educational Strength…and Beauty". _Pitt Chronicle_. **11** (19). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. June 28, 2010. Retrieved  July 1, 2010. 
  138. **^** Born, Molly (November 21, 2011). "Pitt graduate named Rhodes Scholar". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh PA. Retrieved  December 1, 2011. 
  139. **^** Masset, Cara (April 3, 2013). "Pitt Students Garner Three Goldwater Scholarships, a Udall Scholarship, and an Honorable Mention in Each of the Competitions" (Press release). University of Pittsburgh News & Media Relations. Retrieved August 26, 2013. 
  140. **^** Kane, Karen (November 22, 2009). "Pitt grad named 2010 Rhodes Scholar". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  November 22, 2009. 
  141. **^** White, Patricia Lomando (February 16, 2009). "Pitt Honors College's Katherine MacCord Wins Gates Cambridge Scholarship". Pitt Chronicle. Retrieved February 16, 2009. 
  142. **^** "Goldwater Scholarship Awarded to Pitt Junior Alexandre Gauthier" (Press release). University of Pittsburgh News Service. June 12, 2014. Retrieved  June 13, 2014. 
  143. **^** White, Patricia Lomando (June 28, 2010). "Four Pitt Honors College Students Receive 2010 David L. Boren Awards for International Study". _Pitt Chronicle_. **11** (19). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  July 1, 2010. 
  144. **^** Barlow, Kimberly K (April 3, 2008). "Pitt students win Truman, Goldwater scholarships". University Times. Retrieved April 4, 2008. 
  145. **^** "Pitt students win Goldwater, Udall scholarships". _University Times_. **42** (16). Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. April 15, 2010. Retrieved  July 1, 2010. 
  146. **^** Harvith, John; Byrnes, Kelly (November 21, 2011). "Pitt Is Again a Top Producer of Fulbright Grant Winners". _Pitt Chronicle_. **12** (32). Pittsburgh PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  December 1, 2011. 
  147. **^** "For Second Year Straight, Pitt Student Named Rhodes Scholar". _News from Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh. November 19, 2006. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  148. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Britt, Ronda (November 2012). "Universities Report Highest-Ever R&D Spending of $65 Billion in FY 2011" (PDF). _InfoBrief_. Arlington, VA: National Science Foundation. p.  4. Retrieved January 12, 2013. 
  149. **^** Roth, Mark (April 17, 2012). "Pitt 3rd in federal research money among public universities". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh PA. Retrieved  April 28, 2012. 
  150. **^** Leonard, Kimberly (July 16, 2013). "Best Hospitals 2013-14: Overview and Honor Roll". U.S. News & World Report. Retrieved July 16, 2013. 
  151. **^** Schackner, Bill; Chute, Eleanor (March 29, 2012). "Pitt, CMU make most of proximity". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh PA. Retrieved  May 21, 2012. 
  152. **^** University of Pittsburgh: Undergraduate Admissions & Financial Aid. Pitt.edu. Retrieved July 17, 2013.
  153. **^** "Pittsburgh Science and Learning Center". Pittsburgh Science of Learning Center. Retrieved  December 2, 2011. 
  154. **^** "Cross Registration". Pittsburgh Council on Higher Education. Retrieved  December 2, 2011. 
  155. **^** Ford, Sylverna (1992). "Models of Access: The Oakland Library Consortium". _Resource SHaring and Information Networks_. The Haworth Press, Inc. **7** (1): 67–80. doi:10.1300/J121v07n01_06. Retrieved  December 1, 2011. 
  156. **^** "SLRF 2012 in Pittsburgh". SLRF 2012 Organizing Committee. Retrieved  December 2, 2011. 
  157. **^** "Campus tour map" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  158. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Cruttenden, Jamie (October 1, 2005). University of Pittsburgh _(_ Off the Record _)_. College Prowler. p. 6\. ISBN 978-1-59658-174-6. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  159. **^** Copley, Chris M. "University of Pittsburgh". Teen Ink. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  160. **^** Wojcichowski, Leigh Ann (February 21, 2005). "Edeke Has It!". _Pitt Chronicle_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  161. **^** "Pitt Alumni Association: Traditions: When You Wish Upon a Panther". University of Pittsburgh. June 30, 2008. Retrieved  August 15, 2008. 
  162. **^** _2012 Hyundai Tucson: "Nose Rub"_ (Television commercial). HyundaiUSA. September 30, 2011. Retrieved  April 28, 2012. 
  163. **^** "Traditions". Pitt Alumni Association. 2014. Retrieved  July 30, 2014. 
  164. **^** "Pitt Honors College Senior Greg Heller-LaBelle Named 2006 Omicron Delta Kappa Senior of the Year". _University Honors College_. University of Pittsburgh. March 16, 2006. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  165. **^** Anderson, Sam (April 7, 2003). "Bigelow Bash features Queens of the Stone Age and a friendly monkey". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  166. **^** "Student Traditions". University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on June 11, 2007. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  167. **^** Nootbaar, Mark (November 30, 2012). "Singing and Dancing Planned for Pitt Nationality Rooms". 90.5 WESA. Retrieved July 30, 2014. 
  168. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Internet Archive: The Panther Pitt: Pitt Traditions". August 20, 2006. Archived from the original on August 22, 2006. Retrieved  May 1, 2008. 
  169. **^** " "Homecoming must be preserved" (editorial)". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. September 18, 2002. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  170. **^** "Secrets of the Cathedral: Starting at the top". _University Times_. **36** (2). University of Pittsburgh. September 11, 2003. Retrieved  June 26, 2011. 
  171. **^** Miller, Alexis (September 6, 2002). "Turning up the heat". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  172. **^** _Pitt Homecoming 2004 laser/fireworks............ part 4 of 4_. Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania: YouTube. 2004. Retrieved  July 13, 2008. 
  173. **^** "Homecoming 2007". University of Pittsburgh. September 29, 2007. Retrieved  May 1, 2008. 
  174. **^** Polantz, Katelyn (October 20, 2006). "Homecoming events include fireworks, lasers". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  175. **^** Catalano, Emily (October 19, 2006). "Pitt's homecoming history long, filled with memories". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  176. **^** "Upcoming events: Pitt Students – Make Your Heinz Field Standard/Claim Your Grill Night (Aug 27), Pittsburghpanthers.com; accessdate August 24, 2008".  
  177. **^** "The Varsity Walk". _Traditions_. PittsburghPanthers.com. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  178. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Moore, Anthony M. (August 19, 2008). "Pitt's Greek Community Emphasizes Community Service". _Pitt Chronicle_. Pittsburgh, PA: University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  September 6, 2009. 
  179. **^** Miller, Brenda (March 30, 2004). "E-Week's 50th Anniversary". The Pitt News. Retrieved September 6, 2009. 
  180. **^** "Pitt's School of Engineering Holds 50th Annual E-Week March 18–26: Pittopoly, Duct Tape Challenge, and Soap Box Derby part of this year's festivities". Swanson School of Engineering, University of Pittsburgh. March 19, 2004. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  181. **^** "Pitt arts". University of Pittsburgh. April 9, 2008. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  182. **^** "PITT ARTS Reaches More Than 32,000 Participants This Year". _News From Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh. April 24, 2008. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  183. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Department of Theatre Arts". Retrieved  June 8, 2008. 
  184. **^** Leitner, Lucy (October 1, 2009). "After 20 years, Friday Nite Improvs is still getting laughs -- and involving audiences". _Pittsburgh City Paper_. Pittsburgh PA. Retrieved  October 13, 2009. 
  185. **^** "Redeye Theatre Project". February 17, 2008. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  186. **^** "Pitt Musical Theater Club".  
  187. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Pitt Men's Glee Club". Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  188. **^** "Heinz Chapel choir program". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Pittsburgh, PA. November 28, 1986. Retrieved  July 2, 2010. 
  189. **^** "Heinz Chapel Choir". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  190. **^** "Department of Music: Women's Choral Ensemble". University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on April 23, 2008. Retrieved  June 8, 2008. 
  191. **^** "Results". August 12, 2015.  
  192. **^** "Department of Music: Carpathian Ensemble". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  October 25, 2011. 
  193. **^** "Annual Concerts by Year - University of Pittsburgh Gamelan". _www.ucis.pitt.edu_.  
  194. **^** "Department of Music: The University Orchestra". University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on April 22, 2008. Retrieved  June 8, 2008. 
  195. **^** "Pittsburgh Jazz Ensemble". _Jazz at Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 14, 2013. 
  196. **^** "Department of Music: African Music and dance". University of Pittsburgh. Archived from the original on May 9, 2008. Retrieved  June 8, 2008. 
  197. **^** "PittBand.com". University of Pittsburgh Department of Bands. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  198. **^** "About WPTS". WPTS Pittsburgh. Retrieved  November 19, 2009. 
  199. **^** "Jurist: FAQ". JURIST Legal News and Research Services. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  200. **^** "The Pitt News: About Us". The Pitt News. Archived from the original on February 28, 2012. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  201. **^** "Satirical newspaper "Pitiful News" to set for revamp". The Pitt News. Retrieved  June 9, 2014. 
  202. **^** "About UPTV". University of Pittsburgh UPTV. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  203. **^** "Honors College: Student Publications". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  204. **^** "About PUR". _Pittsburgh Undergraduate Review_. Retrieved  August 27, 2008. 
  205. **^** "Pitt Political Review". Retrieved  February 17, 2009. 
  206. **^** "Black Action Society Constitution". Retrieved  December 30, 2014. 
  207. **^** "The Original". Retrieved  February 27, 2009. 
  208. **^** Rice, Ken. "Pitt Students' Late-Night Talk Show Growing In Popularity". Retrieved 2017-03-13. 
  209. **^** "H2P! Late-Night TV Gets Local at Pitt". Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  210. **^** Webteam, University of Pittsburgh University Marketing Communications. "Jesse Irwin: Riffs and Raves on Pitt Tonight | Pitt Chronicle | University of Pittsburgh". _www.chronicle.pitt.edu_. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  211. **^** "#FallonVsIrwin – Pitt Tonight Challenges The Tonight Show". _YouTube_. April 4, 2016.  
  212. **^** EndPlay (2016-04-06). "'Pitt Tonight' show host challenges Jimmy Fallon to eating contest". _WPXI_. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  213. **^** "Pitt Tonight challenges The Tonight Show to Primanti's eating contest | Freak Show Page 2 | 96.1 KISS". _96.1 KISS_. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  214. **^** "Pitt Tonight challenges 'The Tonight Show '". _The Tab Pitt_. 2016-04-04. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  215. **^** " 'Pitt Tonight' nominated for two college Emmy awards - The Pitt News". _The Pitt News_. 2016-08-11. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  216. **^** "WTAE leads local Mid-Atlantic Emmy list with 18 nominations". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  2017-03-13. 
  217. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Freshman Prospectus" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh Office of Admissions and Financial Aid. 2009: 30. Retrieved February 16, 2009. 
  218. **^** "Constitution". Black Action Society. Retrieved  October 10, 2010. 
  219. **^** "Black Week Lecturer!!! Dr. Cornel West". Black Action Society. March 2, 2010. Archived from the original on March 9, 2010. Retrieved  August 27, 2013. 
  220. **^** "The University of Pittsburgh's Black Action Society to Host Famed Director Spike Lee March 31" (Press release). University of Pittsburgh. March 26, 2009. Retrieved  August 27, 2013. 
  221. **^** "Nationally Renowned Senator, Ambassador, and Author Carol Moseley Braun to Speak at Pitt April 16" (Press release). University of Pittsburgh. April 10, 2008. Retrieved  August 27, 2013. 
  222. **^** "Blue and Gold Society". University of Pittsburgh. January 23, 2006. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  223. **^** "Newman Club Active". _The Pitt Weekly: The Official Student and Alumni Journal of the University of Pittsburgh_ (Vol. V, No. 37). February 5, 1915.  
  224. **^** "The Pittsburgh Oratory". Retrieved  February 28, 2017. 
  225. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Graduate and Professional Student Government". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  226. **^** "Welcome to the Hillel JUC of Pittsburgh". The Edward and Rose Berman Hillel Jewish University Center of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  January 14, 2013. 
  227. **^** "Oakland Zoo Club". University of Pittsburgh. July 16, 2008. Retrieved  October 13, 2008. 
  228. **^** "Pitt Pathfinders Fall 2013 Application" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved October 23, 2013. 
  229. **^** "Pitt Program Council". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  January 12, 2009. 
  230. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Student Government Board". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  July 28, 2008. 
  231. **^** "Quo Vadis". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  232. **^** "Rainbow Alliance". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  May 10, 2010. 
  233. **^** "University of Pittsburgh Mock Trial". April 6, 2008. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  234. **^** "Pitt Honors College Mock Trial Team Places Fifth in American Mock Trial Association National Competition". _News From Pitt_. University of Pittsburgh. April 23, 2008. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  235. **^** "Results from Previous National Debate Tournament, 1977–1986" (PDF). Retrieved February 28, 2008. 
  236. **^** "National Debate Tournament Participating Schools, 1947–2006". Wake Forest University. Retrieved  February 28, 2008. 
  237. **^** "William Pitt Debating Union". Department of Communication, Univ. of Pittsburgh. April 2, 2008. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  238. **^** _Pitt: "Only Big Dreams"_. University of Pittsburgh Athletic Media Relations Office. 2012. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  239. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "University of Pittsburgh Official Athletic Site". PittsburghPanthers.com. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  240. **^** "2012 Pitt Gymnastics Quick Facts" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh Athletic Media Relations Office. 2012. Retrieved August 26, 2013. 
  241. **^** "ECAC: Division I (88 Members)". Eastern College Athletic Conference. Archived from the original on September 29, 2008. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  242. **^** "Pitt Honors Its Scholar-Athletes at Annual Breakfast". Pittsburgh, PA: PittsburghPanthers.com. February 5, 2013. Retrieved  March 4, 2013. 
  243. **^** "Student Affairs: Club Sports". University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  244. **^** Cirminiello, Richard (March 16, 2010). "2010 Hoops & Helmets Rankings". CollegeFootballNews.com. Retrieved July 1, 2010. 
  245. **^** Megargee, Steve (June 3, 2010). "Best of both: BCS era combined standings". Brentwood, TN: Rivals.com. Retrieved July 1, 2010. 
  246. **^** Dodd, Dennis (July 22, 2010). "Flourishing Five No. 5: Resurgent Pitt football doing its part". CBSSports.com. Retrieved July 22, 2010. 
  247. **^** "Top two-sport schools over the last five years". ESPN. December 21, 2006. Retrieved  August 20, 2009. 
  248. **^** Bressman, Theodore B. (December 14, 2006). "All-Sport Rankings". _Sports Illustrated_. Retrieved  August 20, 2009. 
  249. **^** Singer, Drew (January 11, 2008). "SGB unleashes panther statues". _The Pitt News_. Pittsburgh, PA. Archived from the original on January 14, 2008. Retrieved  August 27, 2013. 
  250. **^** "Pittsburgh Art in Public Places: Oakland Walking Tour". Office of Public Art. 2006. p. 7. Retrieved  October 8, 2010. 
  251. **^** Gay, Vernon; Evert, Marilyn (1983). _Discovering Pittsburgh's Sculpture_. University of Pittsburgh Press. p. 198\. ISBN 0-8229-3467-1. Retrieved  January 31, 2013. 
  252. **^** Dragotta, Mark (September 2001). "Panther Pride". _Pitt Magazine_. University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  253. **^** "Panther Spring". _Pitt Chronicle_. University of Pittsburgh. April 12, 2004. Retrieved  August 27, 2013. 
  254. **^** "The PNC Carousel: Sponsored Animals". Pittsburgh Parks Conservancy. Retrieved  August 27, 2013. 
  255. **^** Gornick, Mira, ed. (Winter 2003). "Panther Statue at Heinz Field" (PDF). _World of Giving_. University of Pittsburgh: 11. Archived from the original (PDF) on August 31, 2006. Retrieved August 27, 2013. 
  256. **^** O'Brien, Jim, ed. (1982). _Hail to Pitt: A Sports History of the University of Pittsburgh_. Wolfson Publishing Co. p.  62\. ISBN 0-916114-08-2. 
  257. **^** "Pitt Athletics". PittsburghPanthers.com. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  258. **^** Borghetti, E.J.; Nestor, Mendy; Welsh, Celeste, eds. (2008). _2008 Pitt Football Media Guide_ (PDF). Pittsburgh PA: University of Pittsburgh. p. 158. 
  259. **^** Hotchkiss, Greg, ed. (2012). _2011-12 Pitt Men's Basketball Media Guide & Fact Book_ (PDF). University of Pittsburgh Athletic Media Relations Office. Retrieved August 26, 2013. 
  260. **^** Brann, Stacey, ed. (2011). _2011-12 Pitt Women's Basketball Media Guide_. University of Pittsburgh Athletic Media Relations Office. Retrieved  August 26, 2013. 
  261. **^** "Track & Field/Cross Country" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  262. **^** "PITT Wrestling Media Guide 2006–2007" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  263. **^** "Volleyball Releases 2007 Schedule". June 21, 2007. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  264. **^** "2006 Pitt Volleyball Media Guide" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  265. **^** "PITT Gymnastics Media Guide 2007" (PDF). University of Pittsburgh. Retrieved April 29, 2008. 
  266. **^** "Pitt Baseball Ranked in All Five Major Polls". PittsburghPanthers.com. May 13, 2013. Retrieved  May 13, 2013. 
  267. **^** O'Brien, Jim (editor) (1982). _Hail to Pitt: A Sports History of the University of Pittsburgh_. Wolfson Publishing Co. p.  62\. ISBN 0-916114-08-2. CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list (link)
  268. **^** "Spirit Groups". _Traditions_. PittsburghPanthers.com. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  269. **^** "Cheer and Dance Finish in Top 20 in Respective Competitions". _Pitt Athletics_. PittsburghPanthers.com. 2007. Retrieved  April 29, 2008. 
  270. **^** Hart, Peter (August 30, 2001). "Wesley Posvar, 15th chancellor of University, dies". _University Times_. **34** (1). Pittsburgh PA. Retrieved  August 1, 2013. 
  271. **^** "Paul Lauterbur". Nobel Foundation. Retrieved  August 28, 2013. 
  272. **^** "Philip Hench". Nobel Foundation. Retrieved  August 28, 2013. 
  273. **^** "Wangari Maathai". Nobel Foundation. Retrieved  August 28, 2013. 
  274. **^** Hevesi, Dennis (January 17, 2007). "John W. Simpson, 92, Dies. Pioneer of Nuclear Power". New York Times. Retrieved August 21, 2007. 
  275. **^** "Married". Time. November 26, 1951. Retrieved  April 27, 2008. Vladimir Zworykin, 62, Russian-born, Russian-trained physicist, the "father of television," who developed the iconoscope (eye) of the TV camera in 1923 
  276. **^** Templeton, David (August 29, 2008). "Pitt graduate given highest science honor in the U.S". Pittsburgh Post-Gazette. Retrieved August 29, 2008. 
  277. **^** "The Pioneers of Molecular Biology: Herb Boyer". Time Magazine, March 9, 1981 cover of TIME. February 9, 2002. Retrieved  May 4, 2010. 
  278. **^** "Leonard S. Baker, 54, Dies; Won a Pulitzer Prize in 1979". _The New York Times_. November 26, 1984. Retrieved  May 7, 2010. 
  279. **^** Binelli, Mark (September 27, 2001). "The Amazing Story of the Comic-Book Nerd Who Won the Pulitzer Prize for Fiction". _Rolling Stone_ (878): 58–62, 78.  
  280. **^** "Marino's golden arm changed game". ESPN. Retrieved  August 28, 2013. 
  281. **^** "Mike Ditka, Class of 1988". Pro Football Hall of Fame. Retrieved  August 28, 2013. 
  282. **^** "Tony Dorsett". Pro Football Hall of Fame. Retrieved  August 28, 2013. 
  283. **^** "Hall of Famers:Henry Clifford Carlson". Basketball Hall of Fame. Retrieved  August 28, 2013. 
  284. **^** Duke, Sophia; Shekletski, Anne, eds. (2009). _2010 Pitt Track & Field Media Guide_ (PDF). University of Pittsburgh Athletics Media Relations Office. p. 56. Retrieved August 28, 2013. 

### Works cited[edit]

  * Alberts, Robert C. (1986). _Pitt: The Story of the University of Pittsburgh 1787–1987_. University of Pittsburgh Press. ISBN 0-8229-1150-7.  

## External links[edit]

  * PITT portal
  * Pittsburgh portal
  * ACC portal
  * University portal

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**University of Pittsburgh**_.  
---|---  
| Wikisource has the text of a 1921 _Collier's Encyclopedia_ article about
_**University of Pittsburgh**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * Pittsburgh Athletics website
  *  "Pennsylvania, Western University of". _New International Encyclopedia_. 1905.  

  * v
  * t
  * e

University of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
**Located in** : Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania  
  
Academics |

| Schools and  
Colleges |

  * Dietrich School of Arts and Sciences
  * Business
  * Dental Medicine
  * Education
    * Fanny Edel Falk Laboratory School
  * Swanson School of Engineering
  * General Studies
  * Katz Graduate School of Business
  * Health and Rehabilitation Sciences
  * Honors College
  * Computing and Information
  * Law
  * Medicine
  * Nursing
  * Pharmacy
  * Public and International Affairs
  * Public Health
  * Social Work

  
  
---|---  
Centers and  
Institutes |

  * Archives Service Center
  * Cancer Institute
  * Center for International Studies
    * Latin American Studies
  * Center for Philosophy of Science
  * Epidemiology Data Center
  * Ford Institute for Human Security
  * Learning Research and Development Center
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * Pittsburgh Supercomputing Center
  * Stuttering Center of Western Pennsylvania

  
  
Athletics |

| Sports |

  * Pittsburgh Panthers
  * Football
  * Men's Basketball
  * Women's Basketball
  * Baseball
  * Softball
  * Soccer
  * Volleyball
  * Wrestling

  
  
---|---  
Facilities |

  * Heinz Field
  * Petersen Events Center
  * UPMC Sports Performance Complex
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Cost Sports Center
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Trees Hall

  
  
Rivalries |

  * Backyard Brawl
  * City Game
  * Penn State–Pitt rivalry
  * River City Rivalry
  * ACC
  * EAGL

  
  
Spirit |

  * Panther mascot
  * Oakland Zoo
  * Varsity Marching Band
  * "Hail to Pitt"
  * "Victory Song"
  * "Alma Mater"

  
  
Life |

| Groups |

  * Friday Nite Improvs
  * Heinz Chapel Choir
  * Pitt Stages
  * William Pitt Debating Union

  
  
---|---  
Media |

  * _The Pitt News_
  * _University Times_
  * _The Original_
  * WPTS-FM
  * UPTV
  * JURIST

  
  
Journals |

  * _Hot Metal Bridge_
  * _Three Rivers Review_
  * _Pitt Law Review_
  * _Journal of Law and Commerce_
  * _Pitt Journal of Environmental and Public Health Law_
  * _Pitt Journal of Technology Law& Policy_
  * _Pitt Tax Review_

  
  
Pittsburgh  
Campus |

| Historic  
Buildings |

  * Allegheny Observatory
  * Allen Hall
  * Alumni Hall
  * Bellefield Hall
  * Cathedral of Learning
    * Nationality Rooms
  * Chancellor's Residence
  * Clapp Hall
  * Gardner Steel Conference Center
  * Heinz Memorial Chapel
  * Frick Fine Arts Building
  * Music Building
  * O'Hara Student Center
  * Ruskin Hall
  * Salk Hall
  * Schenley Quadrangle
  * Stephen Foster Memorial
  * Thackeray Hall
  * Thaw Hall
  * UCDC
  * University Club
  * William Pitt Union

  
  
---|---  
Other  
Buildings |

  * Barco Law Building
  * Benedum Hall
  * Bouquet Gardens
  * Chevron Science Center
  * Clapp/Langley/Crawford Complex
  * David Lawrence Hall
  * Eberly Hall
  * Forbes Hall
  * Forbes Tower
  * Hillman Library
  * Information Sciences
  * Irvis Hall
  * LRDC
  * Litchfield Towers
  * Log Cabin
  * Lothrop Hall
  * Mervis Hall
  * Nordenberg Hall
  * Old Engineering Hall
  * Parran Hall
  * Panther Hall
  * SRCC
  * Posvar Hall
  * Scaife Hall
  * Sennott Square
  * Sutherland Hall
  * Victoria Building

  
  
Around  
Campus |

  * Oakland
    * Schenley Farms Historic District
  * UPMC
  * Schenley Park
  * Schenley Plaza
  * Carnegie Museums
    * _Dippy_
  * Carnegie Library
  * Phipps Conservatory and Botanical Gardens
  * Pittsburgh Science and Technology Academy
  * Soldiers and Sailors Memorial
  * Mellon Institute
  * _Light Up_
  * Mary Schenley Memorial Fountain
  * _Stephen Foster_ sculpture
  * The "O"
  * Cloud Factory

  
  
Other  
Locations |

| Regional |

  * Bradford
  * Greensburg
  * Johnstown
    * Pasquerilla Performing Arts Center
  * Titusville

  
  
---|---  
Facilities |

  * Cook Spring Creek Preserve
  * Pymatuning Laboratory of Ecology
  * U-PARC

  
  
People |

  * Alumni
  * Faculty
  * Chancellors

  
  
Miscellaneous |

  * History
    * Pitt Stadium
    * Trees Field
    * University Place Office Building
  * Transportation
  * Press
  * D-Scribe
  * _Pitt Poetry Series_
  * Gene Kelly Awards

  
  
  * **Founded** : 1787
  * **Students** : 28,617
  * **Endowment** : 3,589 billion
  * Portal
  * Categories
  * Commons

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

University of Pittsburgh Medical Center (UPMC)  
  
---  
Pittsburgh |

  * Presbyterian Shadyside
  * Children's Hospital
  * Ear & Eye
  * Magee Women's Hospital
  * Mercy
  * Montefiore
  * St. Margaret
  * Western Psychiatric Institute

  
  
Regional |

  * Altoona
  * Bedford Memorial
  * Chautauqua
  * East
  * Hamot
  * Horizon
  * Jameson
  * Kane
  * McKeesport
  * Northwest
  * Passavant
  * Pinnacle (Carlisle, Community Osteopathic, Hanover, Harrisburg, Lancaster, Lititz, Memorial, West Shore)
  * UPMC Susquehanna (Divine Providence, Lock Haven, Muncy Valley, Soldiers + Sailors Memorial, Sunbury, Williamsport Regional)

  
  
International |

  * ISMETT (Italy)

  
  
Miscellaneous |

  * UPMC Sports Performance Complex
  * UPMC Cancer Centers
  * UPMC Mercy South Side Outpatient Center
  * UPMC Pinnacle Harrisburg Polyclinic Medical Center
  * UPMC Braddock
  * Forbes Tower
  * Stuttering Center of Western Pennsylvania
  * UPMC Health Plan
  * UPMC Shadyside School of Nursing
  * Center for Emergency Medicine of Western Pennsylvania
  * STAT Medevac
  * Pittsburgh Life Sciences Greenhouse
  * U.S. Steel Tower (corporate headquarters)
  * List of UPMC buildings in Pittsburgh

  
  
Affiliation |

  * University of Pittsburgh Schools of the Health Sciences: Dental Medicine
  * Health and Rehabilitation Sciences
  * Medicine
  * Nursing
  * Pharmacy
  * Public Health

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * History
    * Timeline
  * Culture
  * Dialect
  * Media
  * Neighborhoods
  * Notable people
  * Skyscrapers

  
  
|

Government  
  
---  
  
  * Airport
  * Conventions
  * City Hall
  * Courthouse
  * Mayor
  * Council
  * Events
  * InterGov
  * Police
  * D.A.
  * Sheriff
  * Fire
  * Libraries
  * Transit
  * Education
  * Port
  * Regional

  
  
|

Economy  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Conference
  * Duquesne Club
  * Chamber of Commerce
  * Economic Club
  * HYP Club
  * Stock Exchange

  
  
---  
  
| Fortune 500 headquarters |

  * U.S. Steel
  * PNC Financial Services
  * PPG Industries
  * Kraft Heinz
  * Mylan
  * WESCO International
  * Consol Energy
  * Dick's Sporting Goods
  * Allegheny Technologies

  
  
---|---  
Forbes largest private  
companies headquarters |

  * 84 Lumber
  * Giant Eagle

  
  
Other corporation headquarters |

  * American Bridge
  * American Eagle Outfitters
  * Ampco Pittsburgh
  * ANSYS
  * Armstrong Communications
  * Atlas America
  * Black Box
  * Bruster's Ice Cream
  * Calgon Carbon
  * Compunetix
  * Dollar Bank
  * DQE Energy
  * Eat'n Park
  * EDMC
  * EQT Energy
  * Federated Investors
  * GNC
  * Guru.com
  * Highmark
  * H. Laughlin China
  * iGate
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Kennametal
  * Koppers
  * MARC USA
  * Millcraft Industries
  * Mine Safety Appliances
  * Niche.com
  * Oxford Development
  * PTC Alliance
  * Renda Broadcasting
  * rue21
  * University of Pittsburgh Medical Center
  * Vocelli Pizza
  * Wabtec

  
  
Companies with split headquarters |

  * Alcoa
  * ModCloth
  * NOVA Chemicals

  
  
Subsidiary company headquarters |

  * Allegheny Energy
  * Bayer Corporation
  * FedEx Ground
  * GlaxoSmithKline USA
  * LANXESS
  * Respironics
  * Vivisimo
  * Westinghouse Electric Company

  
  
Outside companies with  
strong Pittsburgh relations |

  * BNY Mellon (formerly Mellon Financial)
  * Dreyfus Corporation
  * Eaton Corporation
  * Spreadshirt
  * Macy's

  
  
Historic |

  * Fisher's Big Wheel
  * Clark Bar
  * Dravo
  * Fisher Scientific
  * Integra Bank
  * Mesta Machinery
  * G. C. Murphy
  * Gulf Oil
  * J&L Steel
  * Ketchum
  * Rockwell
  * Sunbeam
  * Westinghouse

  
  
List of corporations in Pittsburgh  
  
|

Sports  
  
---  
  
|

  * Dapper Dan
  * Grand Prix
  * Great Race
  * Head of the Ohio
  * Lore
  * Marathon
  * Mylan Classic
  * Regatta
  * WPHL

  
  
---  
Baseball |

  * Pirates
  * Wild Things
  * Panthers
  * Dukes

    _Chronicle-Telegraph Cup_
    Allegheny
    Burghers
    Champions
    Crawfords
    Filipinos
    Grays
    Hardhats
    Keystones
    Stogies
    Rebels  
  
Basketball |

  * Yellow Jackets
  * Panthers (m)
  * Panthers (w)
  * Dukes (m)
  * Dukes (w)
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)

    Roundball Classic
    Condors
    Ironmen
    Loendi
    Monticello
    Phantoms
    Pipers
    Piranhas
    Pirates
    Rens
    Xplosion  
  
Football |

  * Steelers
  * Panthers
  * Steeler Nation
  * heritage
  * Colts
  * Force
  * Passion
  * Renegades

    1898 All-Stars
    Allegheny
    Americans
    A's
    Duquesne
    Gladiators
    Homestead
    Lyceum
    Maulers
    Power
    Odds
    Olympics
    Quakers
    JP
    Stars
    Early Pro Football Circuit  
  
Hockey |

  * Penguins
  * Colonials (m)
  * Colonials (w)
  * Three Rivers Classic

    A's
    Bankers
    Cougars
    Duquesne
    Ft. Pitt
    Hornets
    Keystones
    Lyceum
    Panthers
    Phantoms
    Pirates
    Pirates (WPHL)
    Pros
    Shamrocks
    Victorias
    Winter Garden
    Yellow Jackets  
  
Soccer |

  * Riverhounds

    Beadling
    Cannons
    Hurricanes
    Phantoms
    Spirit  
  
Other |

    Sledgehammers
    Bulls
    Harlequins
    PCC
    Triangles
    Wallabies
    Studio Wrestling
    Dirty Dozen  
  
Venues |

  * PPG Paints Arena
  * Heinz Field
  * PNC Park
  * 84 Lumber Arena
  * Fitzgerald Field House
  * Highmark Stadium
  * Palumbo Center
  * Petersen Events Center
  * Petersen Sports Complex
  * Rooney Field
  * Sewall Center
  * Trees Hall

    Central Park
    Civic Arena
    Duquesne Gardens
    Exposition Park
    Forbes Field
    Josh Gibson Field
    Greenlee Field
    Motor Square Garden
    Pitt Stadium
    Recreation Park
    Schenley Gardens
    Three Rivers
    Winter Garden  
  
|

Parks  
  
---  
  
|

  * Allegheny Arsenal
  * Allegheny Commons
  * Allegheny Riverfront
  * ArtGardens
  * Buhl Community
  * Chatham University Arboretum
  * Frank Curto
  * **Frick**
  * **Emerald View**
  * **Highland**
  * Market Square
  * Mellon
  * Mellon Green
  * Mellon Square
  * North Shore Riverfront
  * Phillips
  * Point of View
  * Point State
  * PPG Place
  * **Riverview**
  * Roberto Clemente Memorial
  * Rodef Shalom Biblical Botanical Garden
  * **Schenley**
  * Schenley Plaza
  * South Shore Riverfront
  * South Side
  * **Three Rivers**
  * West End Overlook
  * Westinghouse

  
  
---  
  
|

Transportation  
  
---  
  
|

  * Inclines
  * Steps

  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Port Authority of Allegheny County  
  
---  
Light rail  
(List of stations) |

  *      Blue Line – Library
  *      Blue Line – South Hills Village
  *      Red Line – Castle Shannon
  *      Red Line – South Hills Village

|  
  
Inclines  
(Historical list) |

  * Duquesne Incline
  * Monongahela Incline

  
  
Buses and busways  
(List of routes) |

  *      Martin Luther King Jr. East Busway
  *      South Busway
  *      West Busway

  
  
Former lines |

  * 47 Drake
  * Brown Line
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
Other |

  * North Shore Connector
  * Port Authority 4000 Series PCC
  * Wabash Tunnel

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Public transportation in Greater Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Bus services |

  * **Port Authority of Allegheny County**
    * list of bus routes
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Fayette
  * IndiGO
  * Mid Mon Valley
  * Mountain Line
  * New Castle
  * Town & Country
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Washington
  * Westmoreland

  
  
Bus rapid transit |

  * MLK Jr. East Busway
  * South Busway
  * West Busway

  
  
Light rail |

  * Red Line
  * Blue Line 
    * Library
    * South Hills Village

  
  
Inclines |

  * Duquesne
  * Monongahela

  
  
Amtrak |

  * _Capitol Limited_
  * _Pennsylvanian_

  
  
Airports |

  * **Pittsburgh International**
  * **Arnold Palmer**
  * Allegheny County
  * Beaver
  * Butler
  * Eddie Dew
  * Greensburg Jeannette
  * Herron
  * Jefferson
  * Jimmy Stewart
  * Joe Hardy
  * Lakehill
  * Monroeville
  * New Castle
  * Rock
  * Rostraver
  * Washington
  * Wheeling
  * Zelienople

  
  
Discontinued |

  * _Broadway Limited_
  * Brown Line
  * List of streetcar routes in Pittsburgh
  * _Parkway Limited_
  * PATrain
  * Skybus

  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Tunnels and bridges in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Tunnels |

  * Allegheny River Tunnel
  * Armstrong Tunnel
  * Cork Run Tunnel
  * Corliss Tunnel
  * Fort Pitt Tunnel
  * J&L Tunnel
  * Liberty Tunnel
  * Mount Washington Transit Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh and Castle Shannon Tunnel
  * Pittsburgh & Steubenville Extension Railroad Tunnel
  * Schenley Tunnel
  * Squirrel Hill Tunnel
  * Wabash Tunnel

|  
  
Bridges |

  * 30th Street Bridge
  * 31st Street Bridge
  * 33rd Street Railroad Bridge
  * 40th Street Bridge
  * Bloomfield Bridge
  * Birmingham Bridge
  * David McCullough Bridge
  * Fort Duquesne Bridge
  * Fort Pitt Bridge
  * Fort Wayne Railroad Bridge
  * Glenwood Bridge
  * Glenwood B&O Railroad Bridge
  * Highland Park Bridge
  * Homestead Grays Bridge
  * Hot Metal Bridge
  * Liberty Bridge
  * McKees Rocks Bridge
  * Panhandle Bridge
  * Panther Hollow Bridge
  * Schenley Bridge
  * Senator Robert D. Fleming Bridge
  * Smithfield Street Bridge
  * South Tenth Street Bridge
  * Three Sisters
    * Roberto Clemente Bridge
    * Andy Warhol Bridge
    * Rachel Carson Bridge
  * Veterans Bridge
  * West End Bridge

  
  
|

Attractions  
  
---  
  
|

  * Aviary
  * Baywood
  * Cathedral of Learning
  * Chinatown
  * Conservatory
  * _Dippy_
  * Immaculate Heart
  * Duquesne Incline
  * Heinz Chapel
  * Little Italy
  * Mellon Institute
  * Mon Incline
  * Observatory
  * Pamela's
  * Penn Station
  * _Point of View_ sculpture
  * Primanti's
  * Science Center
  * Steps
  * USS _Requin_
  * Zoo
  * Kennywood
  * Luna Park
  * Westinghouse Sign

  
  
---  
Landmarks |

  * National (City)
  * National (County)
  * State
  * City
  * PHLF
  * Cultural

  
  
Museums |

  * Art
  * Arts
  * Arts Festival
  * Bible
  * Fort Pitt and Blockhouse
  * Clayton
  * Clemente
  * Children's
  * Frick
  * Glass Center
  * History
  * Jazz
  * Jewish
  * Mattress Factory
  * Dental
  * Miller
  * Miss Pittsburgh
  * Nationality Rooms
  * National Map
  * Natural History
  * Soldiers and Sailors
  * Warhol
  * Wilson
  * WSG

  
  
Venues |

  * Heinz Hall
  * Benedum
  * Byham
  * Harris
  * Kelly-Strayhorn
  * New Hazlett
  * O'Reilly
  * Foster
  * Playhouse
  * Trib
  * Hunt
  * Stage AE
  * Syria Mosque
  * Nixon Theater

  
  
Festivals |

  * Anthrocon
  * Arts
  * Blues
  * Comicon
  * Fashion
  * Film
  * Folk
  * Handmade
  * New Works
  * Tekko
  * Whiskey & Fine Spirits
  * Wine

  
  
|

Shopping and entertainment  
  
---  
  
  * Casino
  * Gateway Clipper Fleet
  * Station Square
  * Strip
  * Downtown
  * Oakland
  * South Side

  * Macy's
  * Market Square
  * Southside Works
  * Waterworks
  * Mount Washington
  * East Liberty
  * Squirrel Hill
  * Shadyside
  * Walnut Street

  * Opera
  * Ballet
  * Symphony
  * Brass
  * Classical Theatre
  * Dance
  * Ensemble
  * Caravan Theatre
  * Folk
  * Light Opera
  * Opera Theater
  * Jewish Theatre
  * Public Theater
  * Playwrights
  * Musical Theater
  * Stage Right
  * Youth Ballet
  * Youth Symphony
  * Bricolage
  * NNOC

|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Shopping malls in Pittsburgh  
  
---  
Enclosed |

  * Beaver Valley Mall
  * The Block Northway
  * Century III Mall
  * The Galleria of Mt. Lebanon
  * The Mall at Robinson
  * Monroeville Mall
  * Pittsburgh Mills
  * Ross Park Mall
  * South Hills Village
  * Station Square
  * Uniontown Mall
  * Warner Centre
  * Washington Crown Center
  * Westmoreland Mall

  
  
Lifestyle /  
Outdoor |

  * Bakery Square
  * Edgewood Towne Centre
  * Ellsworth Avenue
  * McCandless Crossing
  * Northern Lights
  * Robinson Town Centre
  * Settlers Ridge
  * SouthSide Works
  * Walnut Street
  * The Waterfront
  * Waterworks Mall

  
  
Outlet |

  * Grove City Premium Outlets
  * Tanger Outlets Pittsburgh

  
  
Defunct |

  * Allegheny Center Mall
  * East Hills Shopping Center (Eastgate Commerce Center)
  * Eastland Mall
  * Greengate Mall
  * Parkway Center Mall
  * Village Square Mall
  * Washington Mall

  
  
|

Colleges and universities  
  
---  
  
  * Pitt
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Duquesne
  * Robert Morris
  * Chatham
  * Point Park
  * Carlow
  * Art Institute
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Saint Paul Seminary
  * CCAC

  
  
|

Culture of Pittsburgh  
  
---  
  
  * Cookie table
  * Jewish history
  * Iron City Brewing Company
  * Jagoff
  * Joe Magarac
  * _Mister Rogers' Neighborhood_
  * Mr. Yuk
  * Parking chairs
  * Pittsburgh left
  * Pittsburgh toilet
  * Robot Hall of Fame
  * Steeler Nation

  
  
  * **Book**
  * **Category**
  * **Portal**

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Atlantic Coast Conference  
  
---  
Atlantic Division |

  * Boston College Eagles
  * Clemson Tigers
  * Florida State Seminoles
  * Louisville Cardinals
  * North Carolina State Wolfpack
  * Notre Dame Fighting Irish (non-football member)
  * Syracuse Orange
  * Wake Forest Demon Deacons

|  
  
Coastal Division |

  * Duke Blue Devils
  * Georgia Tech Yellow Jackets
  * Miami Hurricanes
  * North Carolina Tar Heels
  * Pittsburgh Panthers
  * Virginia Cavaliers
  * Virginia Tech Hokies

  
  
Championships & awards |

  * Conference champions
  * National championships
  * Athlete of the Year

  
  
Broadcast partners |

  * Raycom Sports (ACC Network; list of affiliates)
  * ESPN (ACC Network Extra)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

East Atlantic Gymnastics League  
  
---  
  
  * George Washington Colonials
  * New Hampshire Wildcats
  * North Carolina Tar Heels
  * NC State Wolfpack
  * Pittsburgh Panthers

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Muisca  
  
---  
  
|

Topics  
  
---  
  
| General |

  * Agriculture
  * Architecture
  * Art
  * Astronomy
  * Calendar
  * Cuisine
  * Economy
  * Mummification
  * Music
  * Muysccubun
  * Mythology
  * Numerals
  * Religion
  * Society
  * Toponyms
  * Warfare
  * Women

  
  
---|---  
Specific |

  * Battle of Pasca (~1470)
  * Battle of Chocontá (~1490)
  * Chicha
  * Duit
  * Emeralds
  * Muisca raft
  * Ruana
  * Tejo
  * _Tunjo_
  * Zoratama

  
  
The Salt People |

  * Zipaquirá
  * Nemocón
  * Tausa
  * Sesquilé

  
  
|

Geography and history  
  
---  
  
| Altiplano  
Cundiboyacense |

  * Bogotá River
    * Frío
    * Fucha
    * Juan Amarillo
    * Soacha
    * Teusacá
    * Torca
    * Tunjuelo
  * Bogotá savanna
    * Suba Hills
    * Wetlands
  * Eastern Hills
  * Flora & fauna
  * Suárez River
  * Ubaté-Chiquinquirá Valley

  
  
---|---  
Neighbouring areas |

  * Ocetá Páramo
  * Tenza Valley

  
  
History |

| Prehistory ( **< 10,000 BP**) |

  * Lake Humboldt
  * El Abra
  * Tibitó
  * Sueva
  * Tequendama

  
  
---|---  
Lithic ( **10,000 - 2800 BP** ) |

  * Piedras del Tunjo
  * Checua
  * Galindo
  * Nemocón
  * Sáchica
  * Aguazuque
  * Lake Herrera
  * _El Infiernito_

  
  
Ceramic ( **> 800 BC**) |

  * Herrera ( **800 BC - 800** )
  * Early Muisca ( **800 - 1200** )
  * Muisca Confederation ( **~1450 - 1540** )
  * Cabildo Mayor ( **> 2002**)

  
  
|

Religion and mythology  
  
---  
  
| Deities |

  * Chiminigagua
  * Bachué
  * Chía
  * Sué
  * Bochica
  * Huitaca
  * Chibchacum
  * Cuchavira
  * Nencatacoa
  * Chaquén
  * Chibafruime
  * Guahaioque

  
  
---|---  
Sacred sites |

| Built |

  * Sun Temple
  * Moon Temple
  * Cojines del Zaque
  * Goranchacha Temple
  * Hunzahúa Well

  
  
---|---  
Natural |

  * Fúquene
  * Guasca
  * Guatavita
  * Iguaque
  * Siecha
  * Suesca
  * Tota
  * Ubaque
  * Tequendama Falls

  
  
Mythology |

| Myths |

  * _El Dorado_
  * Monster of Lake Tota

  
  
---|---  
Mythological figures |

  * Goranchacha
  * Idacansás
  * Pacanchique
  * Thomagata

  
  
|

Caciques and neighbours  
  
---  
  
| Northern _caciques_ |

| _zaque_ of  Hunza |

  * Hunzahúa
  * Michuá
  * Quemuenchatocha
  * Aquiminzaque

  
  
---|---  
_iraca_ of Suamox |

  * Nompanim
  * Sugamuxi

  
  
_cacique_ of Tundama  |

  * Tundama

  
  
Southern _caciques_ |

| _zipa_ of Bacatá |

  * Meicuchuca
  * Saguamanchica
  * Nemequene
  * Tisquesusa
  * Sagipa

  
  
---|---  
_cacique_ of Turmequé |

  * Diego de Torres y Moyachoque

  
  
Neighbours |

| Chibcha-speaking |

  * U'wa
  * Sutagao
  * Guane
  * Lache

  
  
---|---  
Arawak-speaking |

  * Achagua
  * Tegua
  * Guayupe

  
  
Cariban-speaking |

  * Panche
  * Muzo
  * Yarigui

  
  
|

Spanish conquest  
  
---  
  
| Conquistadors |

|  Major |

  * Gonzalo de Quesada
  * Hernán de Quesada
  * Baltasar Maldonado
  * Gonzalo Suárez Rendón
  * Juan de Céspedes
  * Juan de San Martín

  
  
---|---  
Minor |

  * Antonio Díaz de Cardoso
  * Antonio de Lebrija
  * Bartolomé Camacho Zambrano
  * Gonzalo García Zorro
  * Gonzalo Macías
  * Hernán Venegas Carrillo
  * Juan de Albarracín
  * Juan del Junco
  * Juan Tafur
  * Lázaro Fonte
  * Luis Lanchero
  * Martín Galeano
  * Martín Yañéz Tafur
  * Miguel Holguín y Figueroa
  * Ortún Velázquez de Velasco
  * Pedro Fernández de Valenzuela
  * Pedro Ruíz Corredor

  
  
Neighbouring conquests |

  * Conquest of the Chibchan Nations
  * Conquest of the Muzo
  * Conquest of the Panche
    * Battle of Tocarema (1538)

  
  
|

Research and collections  
  
---  
  
| Scholars |

  * Acosta
  * Acosta Samper
  * De Aguado
  * Arango
  * Broadbent
  * De Castellanos
  * Celis
  * Correal
  * Duquesne
  * Freyle
  * Friede
  * Gamboa
  * Groot
  * Hammen
  * Humboldt
  * Izquierdo
  * Langebaek
  * De Lugo
  * Ocampo
  * De Piedrahita
  * De Quesada
  * Reichel-Dolmatoff
  * Schrimpff
  * Simón
  * Triana
  * Uricoechea
  * Zerda

|  
  
---|---|---  
Publications |

  * _Elegías_ (1589)
  * _El Carnero_ (1638)
  * _Epítome_ (1889)

  
  
Research institutes |

  * ICANH
  * Universidad Nacional
  * Universidad de los Andes
  * Universidad La Javeriana
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * UPTC

  
  
Collections |

  * Museo del Oro
  * Archaeology Museum of Sogamoso
  * Archaeology Museum of Pasca
  * Metropolitan Museum of Art

  
  
  * Category
  * Portal
  * Images

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Institutions of higher learning in the Pittsburgh metro area  
  
---  
  
  * Art Institute of Pittsburgh
  * Butler County Community College
  * Byzantine Catholic Seminary of SS. Cyril and Methodius
  * California University of Pennsylvania
  * Carlow University
  * Carnegie Mellon University
  * Chatham University
  * Community College of Allegheny County
  * Community College of Beaver County
  * Duquesne University
  * Geneva College
  * Grove City College
  * Indiana University of Pennsylvania
  * La Roche College
  * Penn State Beaver
  * Penn State Fayette
  * Penn State Greater Allegheny
  * Penn State New Kensington
  * Pittsburgh Theological Seminary
  * Point Park University
  * Reformed Presbyterian Theological Seminary
  * Robert Morris University
  * Saint Vincent College
  * Seton Hill University
  * Slippery Rock University of Pennsylvania
  * Trinity School for Ministry
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * University of Pittsburgh at Greensburg
  * Washington & Jefferson College
  * Waynesburg University
  * Westminster College
  * Westmoreland County Community College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Public colleges and universities in Pennsylvania  
  
---  
State-owned |

  * Bloomsburg
  * California
  * Cheyney
  * Clarion
  * East Stroudsburg
  * Edinboro
  * Indiana
  * Kutztown
  * Lock Haven
  * Mansfield
  * Millersville
  * Shippensburg
  * Slippery Rock
  * West Chester

  
  
State-related |

  * Lincoln University
  * Pennsylvania State University
    * Commonwealth campuses
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Temple University

  
  
Community colleges |

  * Community College of Allegheny County
  * Community College of Beaver County
  * Bucks County Community College
  * Butler County Community College
  * Delaware County Community College
  * Harrisburg Area Community College
  * Lehigh Carbon Community College
  * Luzerne County Community College
  * Montgomery County Community College
  * Northampton Community College
  * Pennsylvania Highlands Community College
  * Community College of Philadelphia
  * Pittsburgh Institute of Mortuary Science
  * Reading Area Community College
  * Thaddeus Stevens College of Technology
  * Westmoreland County Community College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Public Ivy universities  
  
---  
  
Richard Moll's 1985 list  
  
Original Eight |

  * College of William & Mary
  * Miami University
  * University of California
  * University of Michigan
  * University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
  * University of Texas at Austin
  * University of Vermont
  * University of Virginia

  
  
"Worthy Runners-Up" |

  * Binghamton University, State University of New York
  * University of Colorado Boulder
  * Georgia Institute of Technology
  * University of Illinois at Urbana–Champaign
  * New College of Florida
  * Pennsylvania State University
  * University of Pittsburgh
  * University of Washington at Seattle
  * University of Wisconsin–Madison

  
  
Greenes' Guides 2001 list  
  
Eastern |

  * Binghamton University, State University of New York
  * College of William & Mary
  * Pennsylvania State University
  * Rutgers University
  * University of Connecticut
  * University of Delaware
  * University of Maryland
  * University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill
  * University of Vermont
  * University of Virginia

  
  
Western |

  * University of Arizona
  * University of California: 
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * University of Colorado Boulder
  * University of Washington

  
  
Great Lakes & Midwest |

  * Indiana University
  * Miami University
  * Ohio State University
  * University of Illinois
  * University of Iowa
  * University of Michigan
  * Michigan State University
  * University of Minnesota
  * University of Wisconsin

  
  
Southern |

  * University of Florida
  * University of Georgia
  * University of Texas at Austin

  
  
Coordinates: 40°26′40″N 79°57′12″W﻿ / ﻿40.444565°N 79.953274°W﻿ / 40.444565;
-79.953274

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=University_of_Pittsburgh&oldid=813257808"

Categories:

  * University of Pittsburgh
  * Urban 13 universities
  * Gothic Revival architecture in Pennsylvania
  * Educational institutions established in the 1780s
  * 1787 establishments in Pennsylvania

Hidden categories:

  * Pages containing links to subscription-only content
  * CS1 maint: Extra text: authors list
  * Use mdy dates from October 2011
  * Articles which use infobox templates with no data rows
  * Wikipedia articles incorporating a citation from the New International Encyclopedia
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * العربية
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Čeština
  * Deitsch
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gaeilge
  * 한국어
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * Кыргызча
  * Magyar
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Norsk nynorsk
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * ไทย
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 2 December 2017, at 19:09.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

