

# University of Pennsylvania

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Not to be confused with Pennsylvania State University.

University of Pennsylvania  
---  
Latin: Universitas Pennsylvaniensis  
Motto | _Leges sine moribus vanae_ (Latin)  
  
Motto in English

| Laws without morals are useless  
Type | Private  
Established | 1740[note 1]  
Endowment | $12.2 billion (2017)[1]  
Budget | $7.74 billion (FY 2016)[2]  
President | Amy Gutmann  
Provost | Wendell Pritchett  
  
Academic staff

| 4,645 faculty members[2]  
  
Administrative staff

| 2,500[2]  
Students | 21,563 (fall 2015)[2]  
Undergraduates | 10,406 (fall 2015)[2]  
Postgraduates | 11,157 (fall 2015)[2]  
Location | Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, U.S.  
Campus | Urban, 1,094 acres (4.43 km2) total: 302 acres (1.22 km2), University
City campus; 700 acres (2.8 km2), New Bolton Center; 92 acres (0.37 km2),
Morris Arboretum  
Colors | Red and Blue[3]  
  
Athletics | NCAA Division I – Ivy League  
Philadelphia Big 5  
City 6  
Nickname | Quakers  
Affiliations | AAU  
COFHE  
NAICU  
568 Group  
URA  
Website | www.upenn.edu  
  
The **University of Pennsylvania** (commonly known as **Penn** or **UPenn** )
is a private Ivy League research university located in the University City
section of Philadelphia. Incorporated as The Trustees of the University of
Pennsylvania, Penn is one of 14 founding members of the Association of
American Universities and one of the nine colonial colleges chartered before
the American Revolution.[4]

Benjamin Franklin, Penn's founder, advocated an educational program that
focused as much on practical education for commerce and public service as on
the classics and theology, though his proposed curriculum was never adopted.
The university coat of arms features a dolphin on the red chief, adopted
directly from the Franklin family's own coat of arms.[5] Penn was one of the
first academic institutions to follow a multidisciplinary model pioneered by
several European universities, concentrating multiple "faculties" (e.g.,
theology, classics, medicine) into one institution.[6] It was also home to
many other educational innovations. The first school of medicine in North
America (Perelman School of Medicine, 1765), the first collegiate business
school (Wharton School, 1881) and the first "student union" building and
organization (Houston Hall, 1896)[7] were founded at Penn. With an endowment
of $10.72 billion (2016), Penn had the seventh largest endowment of all
colleges in the United States.[8] All of Penn's schools exhibit very high
research activity.[9] In fiscal year 2015, Penn's academic research budget was
$851 million, involving more than 4,300 faculty, 1,100 postdoctoral fellows
and 5,500 support staff/graduate assistants.[2]

Over its history, the university has also produced many distinguished alumni.
These include 14 heads of state (including two U.S. Presidents); 25
billionaires – the most of any university in the world at the undergraduate
level; three United States Supreme Court justices; over 33 United States
Senators, 42 United States Governors and 158 members of the U.S. House of
Representatives; 8 signers of the United States Declaration of Independence;
and 12 signers of the United States Constitution.[10][11][12] In addition,
some 30 Nobel laureates, 169 Guggenheim Fellows and 80 members of the American
Academy of Arts and Sciences have been affiliated with Penn.[13] In addition,
Penn has produced a significant number of Fortune 500 CEOs, in third place
worldwide after Harvard and Stanford.[14][15]

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Early campuses
    * 1.2 Evolution from commuter school to research university
    * 1.3 Educational innovations
    * 1.4 Motto
    * 1.5 Seal
  * 2 Campus
    * 2.1 Libraries
    * 2.2 The University Museum
    * 2.3 Residences
    * 2.4 Campus police
  * 3 Academics
    * 3.1 Coordinated dual-degree and interdisciplinary programs
    * 3.2 Academic medical center and biomedical research complex
    * 3.3 Admissions selectivity
  * 4 Research, innovations and discoveries
  * 5 Rankings
  * 6 Student life
    * 6.1 Demographics
    * 6.2 Selected student organizations
  * 7 Athletics
    * 7.1 Rowing
    * 7.2 Rugby
    * 7.3 Cricket
    * 7.4 Football
    * 7.5 Basketball
    * 7.6 Facilities
  * 8 Notable people
  * 9 Controversies
  * 10 See also
  * 11 Notes
  * 12 References
  * 13 External links

## History[edit]

Academy and College of Philadelphia (c. 1780), 4th and Arch Streets,
Philadelphia, home of what became the University from 1751 to 1801

"House intended for the President of the United States" from "Birch's Views of
Philadelphia" (1800), home of the College of Philadelphia/University of
Pennsylvania from 1801 to 1829

Benjamin Franklin was the primary founder, President of the Board of Trustees
and a trustee of the Academy and College of Philadelphia, which merged with
the University of the State of Pennsylvania to form the University of
Pennsylvania in 1791 (Charles Willson Peale, 1785)

Ninth Street Campus (above Chestnut Street): Medical Hall (left) and College
Hall (right), both built 1829–1830

The University considers itself the fourth-oldest institution of higher
education in the United States,[note 2] as well as the first university in the
United States with both undergraduate and graduate studies.

This statue of Benjamin Franklin donated by Justus C. Strawbridge to the City
of Philadelphia in 1899 now sits in front of College Hall[16]

In 1740, a group of Philadelphians joined together to erect a great preaching
hall for the traveling evangelist George Whitefield, who toured the American
colonies delivering open air sermons. The building was designed and built by
Edmund Woolley and was the largest building in the city at the time, drawing
thousands of people the first time it was preached in.[17]:26 It was initially
planned to serve as a charity school as well, but a lack of funds forced plans
for the chapel and school to be suspended. According to Franklin's
autobiography, it was in 1743 when he first had the idea to establish an
academy, "thinking the Rev. Richard Peters a fit person to superintend such an
institution". However, Peters declined a casual inquiry from Franklin and
nothing further was done for another six years.[17]:30 In the fall of 1749,
now more eager to create a school to educate future generations, Benjamin
Franklin circulated a pamphlet titled "Proposals Relating to the Education of
Youth in Pensilvania", his vision for what he called a "Public Academy of
Philadelphia".[18] Unlike the other Colonial colleges that existed in
1749—Harvard, William & Mary, Yale and Princeton—Franklin's new school would
not focus merely on education for the clergy. He advocated an innovative
concept of higher education, one which would teach both the ornamental
knowledge of the arts and the practical skills necessary for making a living
and doing public service. The proposed program of study could have become the
nation's first modern liberal arts curriculum, although it was never
implemented because William Smith (1727-1803), an Anglican priest who became
the first provost and other trustees strongly preferred the traditional
curriculum.[19][20]

Franklin assembled a board of trustees from among the leading citizens of
Philadelphia, the first such non-sectarian board in America. At the first
meeting of the 24 members of the Board of Trustees (November 13, 1749), the
issue of where to locate the school was a prime concern. Although a lot across
Sixth Street from the old Pennsylvania State House (later renamed and famously
known since 1776 as "Independence Hall"), was offered without cost by James
Logan, its owner, the Trustees realized that the building erected in 1740,
which was still vacant, would be an even better site. The original sponsors of
the dormant building still owed considerable construction debts and asked
Franklin's group to assume their debts and, accordingly, their inactive
trusts. On February 1, 1750, the new board took over the building and trusts
of the old board. On August 13, 1751, the "Academy of Philadelphia", using the
great hall at 4th and Arch Streets, took in its first secondary students. A
charity school also was chartered July 13, 1753[21]:12 in accordance with the
intentions of the original "New Building" donors, although it lasted only a
few years. On June 16, 1755, the "College of Philadelphia" was chartered,
paving the way for the addition of undergraduate instruction.[21]:13 All three
schools shared the same Board of Trustees and were considered to be part of
the same institution.[22] The first commencement exercises were held on May
17, 1757.[21]:14

1755 Charter creating the College of Philadelphia

"The Quad" in the Fall, from Fisher-Hassenfeld College House, facing Ware
College House

The institution of higher learning was known as the College of Philadelphia
from 1755 to 1779. In 1779, not trusting then-provost the Reverend William
Smith's "Loyalist" tendencies, the revolutionary State Legislature created a
University of the State of Pennsylvania.[22] The result was a schism, with
Smith continuing to operate an attenuated version of the College of
Philadelphia. In 1791, the Legislature issued a new charter, merging the two
institutions into a new University of Pennsylvania with twelve men from each
institution on the new Board of Trustees.[22]

Penn has three claims to being the first university in the United States,
according to university archives director Mark Frazier Lloyd: the 1765
founding of the first medical school in America[23] made Penn the first
institution to offer both "undergraduate" and professional education; the 1779
charter made it the first American institution of higher learning to take the
name of "University"; and existing colleges were established as seminaries
(although, as detailed earlier, Penn adopted a traditional seminary curriculum
as well).[24]

After being located in downtown Philadelphia for more than a century, the
campus was moved across the Schuylkill River to property purchased from the
Blockley Almshouse in West Philadelphia in 1872, where it has since remained
in an area now known as University City. Although Penn began operating as an
academy or secondary school in 1751 and obtained its collegiate charter in
1755, it initially designated 1750 as its founding date; this is the year
which appears on the first iteration of the university seal. Sometime later in
its early history, Penn began to consider 1749 as its founding date and this
year was referenced for over a century, including at the centennial
celebration in 1849.[25] In 1899, the board of trustees voted to adjust the
founding date earlier again, this time to 1740, the date of "the creation of
the earliest of the many educational trusts the University has taken upon
itself".[26] The board of trustees voted in response to a three-year campaign
by Penn's General Alumni Society to retroactively revise the university's
founding date to appear older than Princeton University, which had been
chartered in 1746.[27]

### Early campuses[edit]

The Academy of Philadelphia, a secondary school for boys, began operations in
1751 in an unused church building at 4th and Arch Streets which had sat
unfinished and dormant for over a decade. Upon receiving a collegiate charter
in 1755, the first classes for the College of Philadelphia were taught in the
same building, in many cases to the same boys who had already graduated from
The Academy of Philadelphia. In 1801, the University moved to the unused
Presidential Mansion at 9th and Market Streets, a building that both George
Washington and John Adams had declined to occupy while Philadelphia was the
temporary national capital.[21] Classes were held in the mansion until 1829,
when it was demolished. Architect William Strickland designed twin buildings
on the same site, College Hall and Medical Hall (both 1829–1830), which formed
the core of the Ninth Street Campus until Penn's move to West Philadelphia in
the 1870s.

### Evolution from commuter school to research university[edit]

As recently as the 1950s, the University of Pennsylvania was considered a
"commuter school".[28] The Pennsylvania Urban Redevelopment Act of 1954
enabled the university to expand and build facilities better suited to a
residential university. At first, when the Ivy League was being organized, the
athletic directors of the other seven schools protested, fearing Penn's
football prowess and arguing that its students' relatively weaker academic
credentials would give it an unfair advantage in recruiting athletes.[29]

Gradually, over the second half of the 20th century, the school raised its
profile, became more selective and dramatically increased its endowment.
Between 1995 and 2005, the university spent over a billion dollars on campus
improvements to attract top students and faculty.[30]

### Educational innovations[edit]

College Hall and then Logan Hall viewed from Woodland Ave, c. 1892

Penn's educational innovations include: the nation's first medical school in
1765; the first university teaching hospital in 1874; the Wharton School, the
world's first collegiate business school, in 1881; the first American student
union building, Houston Hall, in 1896;[31] the country's second school of
veterinary medicine; and the home of ENIAC, the world's first electronic,
large-scale, general-purpose digital computer in 1946. Penn is also home to
the oldest continuously functioning psychology department in North America and
is where the American Medical Association was founded.[32][33] In 1921, Penn
was also the first university to award a PhD to an African-American woman,
Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander (in economics).[34]

Statue of the Reverend George Whitefield at the University of Pennsylvania

### Motto[edit]

Penn's motto is based on a line from Horace's III.24 (Book 3, Ode 24), _quid
leges sine moribus vanae proficiunt?_ ("of what avail empty laws without
[good] morals?"). From 1756 to 1898, the motto read _Sine Moribus Vanae_. When
it was pointed out that the motto could be translated as "Loose women without
morals", the university quickly changed the motto to _literae sine moribus
vanae_ ("Letters without morals [are] useless"). In 1932, all elements of the
seal were revised and as part of the redesign it was decided that the new
motto "mutilated" Horace and it was changed to its present wording, _Leges
Sine Moribus Vanae_ ("Laws without morals [are] useless").[35]

###  Seal[edit]

1757–1780

1933 – present

The official seal of the Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania serves as
the signature and symbol of authenticity on documents issued by the
corporation.[36] A request for one was first recorded in a meeting of the
trustees in 1753 during which some of the Trustees "desired to get a Common
Seal engraved for the Use of [the] Corporation". However, it was not until a
meeting in 1756 that "a public Seal for the College with a proper device and
Motto" was requested to be engraved in silver.[37] The most recent design, a
modified version of the original seal, was approved in 1932, adopted a year
later and is still used for much of the same purposes as the original.[36]

The outer ring of the current seal is inscribed with "Universitas
Pennsylvaniensis", the Latin name of the University of Pennsylvania. The
inside contains seven stacked books on a desk with the titles of subjects of
the trivium and a modified quadrivium, components of a classical education:
Theolog[ia], Astronom[ia], Philosoph[ia], Mathemat[ica], Logica, Rhetorica and
Grammatica. Between the books and the outer ring is the Latin motto of the
University, "Leges Sine Moribus Vanae".[36]

## Campus[edit]

Overlooking Lower Quad from Upper Quad

Much of Penn's architecture was designed by the Cope & Stewardson firm, whose
principal architects combined the Gothic architecture of the University of
Oxford and the University of Cambridge with the local landscape to establish
the Collegiate Gothic style. The present core campus covers over 279 acres
(1.13 km2) in a contiguous area of West Philadelphia's University City
section, whereas the older heart of the campus comprises the University of
Pennsylvania Campus Historic District. All of Penn's schools and most of its
research institutes are located on this campus. The surrounding neighborhood
includes several restaurants and pubs, a large upscale grocery store and a
movie theater on the western edge of campus.

The campus has several notable art installations. The "Covenant", better known
to the student body as "The Tampons",[38] is a large red structure located on
Locust Walk between the high rise residences. It was installed in 1975 and is
made of rolled sheets of milled steel. A larger-than-life white button, known
as "The Button", is another popular sculpture. It sits at the south entrance
of Van Pelt Library and has button holes large enough to stand in. Penn also
has a replica of the "Love" sculpture, part of a series created by Robert
Indiana. It is a painted aluminum sculpture and was installed in 1998.

The Module 6 Utility Plant and Garage at Penn was designed by BLT Architects
and completed in 1995. Module 6 is located at 38th and Walnut and includes
spaces for 627 vehicles, 9,000 sq ft (840 m2) of storefront retail operations,
a 9,500-ton chiller module and corresponding extension of the campus chilled
water loop and a 4,000-ton ice storage facility.[39]

In 2007, Penn acquired about 35 acres (140,000 m2) between the campus and the
Schuylkill River (the former site of the Philadelphia Civic Center and a
nearby 24-acre (97,000 m2) site owned by the United States Postal Service).
Dubbed the Postal Lands, the site extends from Market Street on the north to
Penn's Bower Field on the south, including the former main regional U.S.
Postal Building at 30th and Market Streets, now the regional office for the
U.S. Internal Revenue Service. Over the next decade, the site will become the
home to educational, research, biomedical, and mixed-use facilities. The first
phase, comprising a park and athletic facilities, opened in the fall of 2011.
Penn also plans new connections between the campus and the city, including a
pedestrian bridge. In 2010, in its first significant expansion across the
Schuylkill River, Penn purchased 23 acres at the northwest corner of 34th
Street and Grays Ferry Avenue from DuPont for storage and office space.

Upper Quad Gate

In September 2011, Penn completed the construction of the $46.5 million
24-acre (97,000 m2) Penn Park, which features passive and active recreation
and athletic components framed and subdivided by canopy trees, lawns, and
meadows. It is located east of the Highline Green and stretches from Walnut
Street to South Streets. The University also owns the 92-acre (370,000 m2)
Morris Arboretum in Chestnut Hill in northwestern Philadelphia, the official
arboretum of the state of Pennsylvania. Penn also owns the 687-acre (2.78 km2)
New Bolton Center, the research and large-animal health care center of its
Veterinary School. Located near Kennett Square, New Bolton Center received
nationwide media attention when Kentucky Derby winner Barbaro underwent
surgery at its Widener Hospital for injuries suffered while running in the
Preakness Stakes.

Penn borders Drexel University and is near the University of the Sciences in
Philadelphia. The renowned cancer research center Wistar Institute is also
located on campus. In 2014, a new 7-story glass and steel building was
completed next to the Institute's historic 117-year-old brick building further
expanding collaboration between the university and the Wistar Institute.[40]

### Libraries[edit]

Fisher Fine Arts Library, also referred to as the Furness Library or simply
the Fine Arts Library

Penn's library began in 1750 with a donation of books from cartographer Lewis
Evans. Twelve years later, then-provost William Smith sailed to England to
raise additional funds to increase the collection size. Benjamin Franklin was
one of the Libraries' earliest donors and, as a Trustee, saw to it that funds
were allocated for the purchase of texts from London, many of which are still
part of the collection, more than 250 years later. It has grown into a system
of 15 libraries (13 are on the contiguous campus) with 400 full-time
equivalent (FTE) employees and a total operating budget of more than $48
million. The library system has 6.19 million book and serial volumes as well
as 4.23 million microform items and 1.11 million e-books.[2] It subscribes to
over 68,000 print serials and e-journals.[41]

Penn's Libraries, with associated school or subject area: Annenberg (School of
Communications), located in the Annenberg School; Biddle (Law), located in the
Law School; Biomedical, located adjacent to the Robert Wood Johnson Pavilion
of the Medical School; Chemistry, located in the 1973 Wing of the Chemistry
Building; Dental Medicine; Engineering, located on the second floor of the
Towne Building in the Engineering School; Fine Arts, located within the Fisher
Fine Arts Library, designed by Frank Furness; Katz Center for Advanced Judaic
Studies, located on Walnut Street at Washington Square; Lea Library, located
within the Van Pelt Library; Lippincott (Wharton School), located on the
second floor of the Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center; Math/Physics/Astronomy,
located on the third floor of David Rittenhouse Laboratory; Museum
(Archaeology); Rare Books and Manuscripts; Van Pelt-Dietrich Library Center
(Humanities and Social Sciences) – location of Weigle Information Commons;
Veterinary Medicine, located in Penn Campus and New Bolton Center; and High
Density Storage.

The Penn Libraries are strong in Area Studies,[42] with bibliographers for
Africa, East Asia, Judaica, Latin America, Middle East, Russia and Slavic and
South Asia. As a result, the Penn Libraries have extensive collections in
several hundred languages.

### The University Museum[edit]

University Museum and Warden Garden

Main article: University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and
Anthropology

Since the University museum was founded in 1887, it has taken part in 400
research projects worldwide.[43] The museum's first project was an excavation
of Nippur, a location in current day Iraq.[44] The museum has three gallery
floors with artifacts from Egypt, the Middle East, Mesoamerica, Asia, the
Mediterranean, Africa and indigenous artifacts of the Americas.[43] Its most
famous object is the goat rearing into the branches of a rosette-leafed plant,
from the royal tombs of Ur. The Museum's excavations and collections foster a
strong research base for graduate students in the Graduate Group in the Art
and Archaeology of the Mediterranean World. Features of the Beaux-Arts
building include a rotunda and gardens that include Egyptian papyrus. The
Institute of Contemporary Art, which is based on Penn's campus, showcases
various art exhibitions throughout the year.

### Residences[edit]

Main article: University of Pennsylvania College Houses

Every College House at the University of Pennsylvania has at least four
members of faculty in the roles of House Dean, Faculty Master and College
House Fellows.[45] Within the College Houses, Penn has nearly 40 themed
residential programs for students with shared interests such as world cinema
or science and technology. Many of the nearby homes and apartments in the area
surrounding the campus are often rented by undergraduate students moving off
campus after their first year, as well as by graduate and professional
students.

The College Houses include W.E.B. Du Bois, Fisher Hassenfeld, Gregory,
Harnwell, Harrison, Hill, Kings Court English, New College House, Riepe,
Rodin, Stouffer and Ware.[46] Fisher Hassenfeld, Ware and Riepe together make
up one building called "The Quad".

### Campus police[edit]

The University of Pennsylvania Police Department (UPPD) is the largest private
police department in Pennsylvania, with 117 members. All officers are sworn
municipal police officers and retain general law enforcement authority while
on the campus.[47]

In 2016, a UPPD explosives detection dog named "Zzisa" took fifth place in a
national competition.[48]

## Academics[edit]

**University of Pennsylvania graduate and professional schools**[49]  
---  
**School** | **Year founded**  
  
* * *  
  
Annenberg School for Communication |  1958  
Graduate School of Arts and Sciences | 1881[50]  
Graduate School of Education | 1915  
Law School | 1850[note 3]  
Perelman School of Medicine | 1765[52]  
School of Dental Medicine | 1878[53]  
School of Design | 1868  
School of Engineering and Applied Science | 1850[54]  
School of Nursing | 1935  
School of Social Policy and Practice | 1948  
School of Veterinary Medicine | 1884[55]  
The Wharton School | 1881[56]  
  
The College of Arts and Sciences is the undergraduate division of the School
of Arts and Sciences. The School of Arts and Sciences also contains the
Graduate Division and the College of Liberal and Professional Studies, which
is home to the Fels Institute of Government, the master's programs in
Organizational Dynamics, and the Environmental Studies (MES) program. Wharton
is the business school of the University of Pennsylvania. Other schools with
undergraduate programs include the School of Nursing and the School of
Engineering and Applied Science (SEAS).

Penn has a strong focus on interdisciplinary learning and research. It offers
double degree programs, unique majors, and academic flexibility. Penn's "One
University" policy allows undergraduates access to courses at all of Penn's
undergraduate and graduate schools, except the medical, veterinary and dental
schools. Undergraduates at Penn may also take courses at Bryn Mawr, Haverford
and Swarthmore, under a reciprocal agreement known as the Quaker Consortium.

### Coordinated dual-degree and interdisciplinary programs[edit]

Penn offers specialized coordinated dual-degree (CDD) programs, which award
candidates degrees from multiple schools at the University upon completion of
graduation criteria of both schools. Undergraduate programs include:

  * The Jerome Fisher Program in Management and Technology
  * Artificial Intelligence: Computer and Cognitive Science
  * The Huntsman Program in International Studies and Business
  * Nursing and Health Care Management
  * The Roy and Diana Vagelos Program in Life Sciences and Management
  * Vagelos Scholars Program in Molecular Life Sciences
  * Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research (VIPER)
  * Accelerated 7 year Bio-Dental Program
  * Singh Program in Networked & Social Systems Engineering (NETS)[57]
  * Accelerated 6-year Law and Medicine Program[58]

Dual-degree programs which lead to the same multiple degrees without
participation in the specific above programs are also available. Unlike CDD
programs, "dual degree" students fulfill requirements of both programs
independently without involvement of another program. Specialized dual-degree
programs include Liberal Studies and Technology as well as an Artificial
Intelligence: Computer and Cognitive Science Program. Both programs award a
degree from the College of Arts and Sciences and a degree from the School of
Engineering and Applied Sciences. In addition, the Vagelos Scholars Program in
Molecular Life Sciences allows its students to either double major in the
sciences or submatriculate and earn both a B.A. and a M.S. in four years. The
most recent Vagelos Integrated Program in Energy Research (VIPER) will be
first offered for the class of 2016. A joint program of Penn's School of Arts
and Sciences and the School of Engineering and Applied Science, VIPER leads to
dual Bachelor of Arts and Bachelor of Science in Engineering degrees by
combining majors from each school.

For graduate programs, Penn offers many formalized double degree graduate
degrees such as a joint J.D./MBA, and maintains a list of interdisciplinary
institutions, such as the Institute for Medicine and Engineering, the Joseph
H. Lauder Institute for Management and International Studies, and the
Institute for Research in Cognitive Science.

### Academic medical center and biomedical research complex[edit]

Perelman School of Medicine

University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine

Penn's health-related programs—including the Schools of Medicine, Dental
Medicine, Nursing, and Veterinary Medicine, and programs in bioengineering
(School of Engineering), biology (School of Arts and Sciences), and health
management (the Wharton School)—are among the university's strongest academic
components.

However, the size of Penn's biomedical research organization adds a very
capital intensive component to the university's operations and introduces
revenue instability due to changing government regulations, reduced federal
funding for research and Medicaid/Medicare program changes. This is a primary
reason highlighted in bond rating agencies' views on Penn's overall financial
rating, which ranks one notch below its academic peers. Penn has worked to
address these issues by pooling its schools (as well as several hospitals and
clinical practices) into the University of Pennsylvania Health System, thereby
pooling resources for greater efficiencies and research impact.

### Admissions selectivity[edit]

The _Princeton Review_ ranks Penn as the 6th most selective school in the
United States.[59] For the Class of 2018, entering in the fall of 2014, the
University received a record of 35,868 applications and admitted 9.9 percent
of the applicants (7% in the regular decision cycle), marking Penn's most
selective admissions cycle in the history of the University.[60] _The
Atlantic_ also ranked Penn among the 10 most selective schools in the country.
At the graduate level, based on admission statistics from _U.S. News & World
Report_, Penn's most selective programs include its law school, the health
care schools (medicine, dental medicine, nursing, Social Work and veterinary)
and its business school.

## Research, innovations and discoveries[edit]

Claudia Cohen Hall, formerly Logan Hall, home of the College of Arts and
Sciences and former home of the Wharton School and originally, the medical
school

Penn is considered a "very high research activity" university.[61] Its
economic impact on the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania for 2015 amounted to $14.3
billion.[62] In fiscal year 2015, Penn's research budget was $851 million. In
line with its well-known interdisciplinary tradition, Penn's research centers
often span two or more disciplines. In the 2010–2011 academic year alone, five
interdisciplinary research centers were created or substantially expanded;
these include the Center for Health-care Financing,[63] the Center for Global
Women's Health at the Nursing School,[64] the $13 million Morris Arboretum's
Horticulture Center,[65] the $15 million Jay H. Baker Retailing Center at
Wharton[66] and the $13 million Translational Research Center at Penn
Medicine.[67] With these additions, Penn now counts 165 research centers
hosting a research community of over 4,300 faculty and over 1,100 postdoctoral
fellows, 5,500 academic support staff and graduate student trainees.[2] To
further assist the advancement of interdisciplinary research President Amy
Gutmann established the "Penn Integrates Knowledge" title awarded to selected
Penn professors "whose research and teaching exemplify the integration of
knowledge".[68] These professors hold endowed professorships and joint
appointments between Penn's schools. The most recent of the 22 PIK professors
is George Demiris, who started at Penn in January 2018 with a joint
appointment at the School of Nursing and the Perelman School of Medicine.[68]

As a powerful research-oriented institution Penn is also among the most
prolific and high-quality producers of doctoral students. With 487 PhDs
awarded in 2009, Penn ranks third in the Ivy League, only behind Columbia and
Cornell (Harvard did not report data).[69] It also has one of the highest
numbers of post-doctoral appointees (933 in number for 2004–2007), ranking
third in the Ivy League (behind Harvard and Yale) and tenth nationally.[70] In
most disciplines Penn professors' productivity is among the highest in the
nation and first in the fields of Epidemiology, Business, Communication
Studies, Comparative Literature, Languages, Information Science, Criminal
Justice and Criminology, Social Sciences and Sociology.[71] According to the
National Research Council nearly three-quarters of Penn's 41 assessed programs
were placed in ranges including the top 10 rankings in their fields, with more
than half of these in ranges including the top 5 rankings in these fields.[72]

ENIAC, the first general-purpose electronic computer, was born at Penn in 1946

Penn's research tradition has historically been complemented by innovations
that shaped higher education. In addition to establishing the first medical
school, the first university teaching hospital, the first business school and
the first student union, Penn was also the cradle of other significant
developments. In 1852, Penn Law was the first law school in the nation to
publish a law journal still in existence (then called _The American Law
Register,_ now the _Penn Law Review_ , one of the most cited law journals in
the world).[73] Under the deanship of William Draper Lewis, the law school was
also one of the first schools to emphasize legal teaching by full-time
professors instead of practitioners, a system that is still followed
today.[74] The Wharton School was home to several pioneering developments in
business education. It established the first research center in a business
school in 1921 and the first center for entrepreneurship center in 1973[75]
and it regularly introduced novel curricula for which _BusinessWeek_ wrote,
"Wharton is on the crest of a wave of reinvention and change in management
education".[76][77]

Several major scientific discoveries have also taken place at Penn. The
university is probably best known as the place where the first general-purpose
electronic computer (ENIAC) was born in 1946 at the Moore School of Electrical
Engineering.[78] It was here also where the world's first spelling and grammar
checkers were created, as well as the popular COBOL programming language.[78]
Penn can also boast some of the most important discoveries in the field of
medicine. The dialysis machine used as an artificial replacement for lost
kidney function was conceived and devised out of a pressure cooker by William
Inouye while he was still a student at Penn Med;[79] the Rubella and Hepatitis
B vaccines were developed at Penn;[79][80] the discovery of cancer's link with
genes, cognitive therapy, Retin-A (the cream used to treat acne), Resistin,
the Philadelphia gene (linked to chronic myelogenous leukemia) and the
technology behind PET Scans were all discovered by Penn Med researchers.[79]
More recent gene research has led to the discovery of the genes for fragile X
syndrome, the most common form of inherited mental retardation; spinal and
bulbar muscular atrophy, a disorder marked by progressive muscle wasting; and
Charcot–Marie–Tooth disease, a progressive neurodegenerative disease that
affects the hands, feet and limbs.[79] Conductive polymer was also developed
at Penn by Alan J. Heeger, Alan MacDiarmid and Hideki Shirakawa, an invention
that earned them the Nobel Prize in Chemistry. On faculty since 1965, Ralph L.
Brinster developed the scientific basis for in vitro fertilization and the
transgenic mouse at Penn. The theory of superconductivity was also partly
developed at Penn, by then faculty member John Robert Schrieffer (along with
John Bardeen and Leon Cooper). The university has also contributed major
advancements in the fields of economics and management. Among the many
discoveries are conjoint analysis, widely used as a predictive tool especially
in market research, Simon Kuznets's method of measuring Gross National
Product,[81] the Penn effect (the observation that consumer price levels in
richer countries are systematically higher than in poorer ones) and the
"Wharton Model"[82] developed by Nobel-laureate Lawrence Klein to measure and
forecast economic activity. The idea behind Health Maintenance Organizations
also belonged to Penn professor Robert Eilers, who put it into practice during
then President Nixon's health reform in the 1970s.[81]

## Rankings[edit]

| University rankings  
---  
National  
_ARWU_[83] |  15  
_Forbes_[84] |  7  
_U.S. News& World Report_[85] |  8  
_Washington Monthly_[86] |  5  
Global  
_ARWU_[87] |  18  
_QS_[88] |  19  
_Times_[89] |  10  
_U.S. News& World Report_[90] |  14  
| National Program Rankings[91]  
---  
Program | Ranking  
Biological Sciences | 19  
Business | 1  
Chemistry | 19  
Clinical Psychology | 11  
Computer Science | 19  
Earth Sciences | 77  
Economics | 10  
Education | 3  
Engineering | 19  
English | 3  
Fine Arts | 33  
History | 11  
Law | 7  
Mathematics | 17  
Medicine: Primary Care | 8  
Medicine: Research | 5  
Nursing: Master's | 3  
Nursing–Anesthesia | 29  
Nursing–Midwifery | 7  
Physics | 16  
Political Science | 19  
Psychology | 8  
Public Affairs | 45  
Social Work | 12  
Sociology | 11  
Statistics | 8  
Veterinary Science | 7  
| Global Program Rankings[92]  
---  
Program | Ranking  
Arts and Humanities | 13  
Biology and Biochemistry | 17  
Chemistry | 43  
Clinical Medicine | 8  
Computer Science | 89  
Economics and Business | 3  
Engineering | 146  
Immunology | 10  
Materials Science | 41  
Mathematics | 65  
Microbiology | 10  
Molecular Biology and Genetics | 12  
Neuroscience and Behavior | 10  
Pharmacology and Toxicology | 43  
Physics | 42  
Plant and Animal Science | 105  
Psychiatry/Psychology | 9  
Social Sciences and Public Health | 19  
Space Science | 90  
  
General rankings

According to _U.S. News& World Report_ 's 2017 rankings, Penn is ranked tied
for 8th among national universities in the United States.[93] _U.S. News_ also
includes Penn in its Most Popular National Universities list[94] and so does
_The Princeton Review_ in its Dream Colleges list.[95] As reported by _USA
Today_ , Penn was ranked 1st in the United States by College Factual for
2015.[96]

In their 2016/2017 editions, Penn was ranked 18th in the world by the _QS
World University Rankings_ , 18th by the _Academic Ranking of World
Universities_ (ARWU) and 13th by the _Times Higher Education World University
Rankings_. According to the 2015 ARWU ranking, Penn is also the 8th and 9th
best university in the world for economics/business and social sciences
studies, respectively.[97] University of Pennsylvania ranked 12th among 300
Best World Universities in 2012 compiled by Human Resources & Labor Review
(HRLR) on Measurements of World's Top 300 Universities Graduates'
Performance.[98]

Research rankings

The Center for Measuring University Performance places Penn in the first tier
of the United States' top research universities (tied with Columbia, MIT and
Stanford), based on research expenditures, faculty awards, PhD granted and
other academic criteria.[99] Penn was also ranked 18th of all U.S. colleges
and universities in terms of R&D expenditures in fiscal year 2013 by the
National Science Foundation.[100] The High Impact Universities research
performance index ranks Penn 8th in the world, whereas the 2010 Performance
Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities (published by the Higher
Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan) ranks Penn 11th in
the world for 2007, 2008 and 2010 and 9th for 2009.[ _citation needed_ ] The
Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers measures universities' research
productivity, research impact, and research excellence based on the scientific
papers published by their academic staff. The SCImago Institutions Rankings
World Report 2012, which ranks world universities, national institutions and
academies in terms of research output, ranks Penn 7th nationally among U.S.
universities (2nd in the Ivy League behind Harvard) and 28th in the world
overall (the first being France's Centre National de la Recherche
Scientifique).[101]

Other rankings

The Mines ParisTech International Professional Ranking, which ranks
universities on the basis of the number of alumni listed among CEOs in the 500
largest worldwide companies, ranks Penn 11th worldwide and 2nd nationally
behind Harvard.[102] According to a _US News_ article in 2010, Penn is tied
for second (tied with Dartmouth College and Tufts University) for the number
of undergraduate alumni who are current Fortune 100 CEOs.[103] _Forbes_ ranked
Penn 17th, based on a variety of criteria.[104]

Undergraduate programs

Penn's arts and science programs are all well regarded, with many departments
ranked among the nation's top 10. At the undergraduate level, Wharton (Penn's
business school) and Penn's nursing school have maintained their No. 1, 2 or 3
rankings since _U.S. News_ began reviewing such programs. [ _citation needed_
] The College of Arts and Sciences' English Department is also consistently
ranked in the top five humanities programs in the country, ranking 3rd in the
most current _U.S. News_ report. In the School of Engineering, top departments
are bioengineering (typically ranked in the top 5 by _U.S. News_ ), mechanical
engineering, chemical engineering and nanotechnology.[ _citation needed_ ] The
school is also strong in some areas of computer science and artificial
intelligence.[ _citation needed_ ]

Graduate and professional programs

Among its professional schools, the schools of business, communication,
dentistry, medicine, nursing, and veterinary medicine rank in the top 5
nationally (see _U.S. News_ and National Research Council). [ _citation
needed_ ] Penn's Law School is ranked 7th, its Design school is 8th, and its
School of Education and School of Social Policy and Practice are ranked in the
top 10 (see _U.S. News_ ).[ _citation needed_ ] In the 2010 QS Global 200
Business Schools Report, Penn was ranked 2nd in North America.[105]

Executive salary

Amy Gutmann's total compensation in 2016 was $3,333,378, placing her as the
second highest paid college president in the Ivy League, behind Columbia
University's Lee C. Bollinger.[106]

## Student life[edit]

Ethnic enrollment,  
Fall 2014[107] | Under-  
graduates  
  
---|---  
African American | 693 (7.1%)  
Native American | 9 (0.1%)  
Asian American and  
Pacific Islander | 1,917 (19.7%)  
Hispanic and  
Latino American | 1,008 (10.3%)  
White | 4,355 (44.7%)  
International | 1,103 (11.3%)  
Two or more races | 373 (3.8%)  
Unknown | 288 (3.0%)  
Total | 9,746 (99.9%)  
  
Library of the Philomathean Society

Psi Upsilon Fraternity a.k.a. The Castle

Phi Delta Theta and Kappa Sigma

### Demographics[edit]

Of those accepted for admission to the undergraduate Class of 2018, 52 percent
are Asian, Hispanic, African-American or Native American.[2] In addition, 53%
of current students are women.[2]

Twelve percent of the undergraduate Class of 2018 were international
students.[2] The composition of international students accepted in the Class
of 2018 is: 43% from Asia; 15% from Africa and the Middle East; 20% from
Europe; 15% from Canada and Mexico; 5% from the Caribbean, Central America and
South America; 3% from Australia and the Pacific Islands.[2] The acceptance
rate for international students applying for the class of 2018 was 429 out of
6,428 (6.7%).[2]

### Selected student organizations[edit]

The Philomathean Society, founded in 1813, is the United States' oldest
continuously existing collegiate literary society and continues to host
lectures and intellectual events.[108] The Mask and Wig Club is the oldest
all-male musical comedy troupe in the country. The University of Pennsylvania
Glee Club, founded in 1862, is one of the oldest continually operating
collegiate choruses in the United States. Bruce Montgomery, its best-known and
longest-serving director, led the club from 1956 until 2000.[109] The
International Affairs Association (IAA) was founded in 1963 as an organization
to promote international affairs and diplomacy at Penn and beyond.[110] With
over 400 members, it is the largest student-funded organization on campus. The
IAA serves as an umbrella organization for various conferences (UPMUNC, ILMUNC
and PIRC), as well as a host of other academic and social activities. The Penn
Debate Society (PDS), founded in 1984 as the Penn Parliamentary Debate
Society, is Penn's debate team, which competes regularly on the American
Parliamentary Debate Association and the international British Parliamentary
circuit.[111] The PDS has a history of success, consistently fielding debaters
ranked in the top 10 nationally and advancing teams to elimination rounds at
the World University Debating Championships.

The University of Pennsylvania Band has been a part of student life since
1897.[112] The Penn Band performs at football and basketball games as well as
university functions (e.g. commencement and convocation) throughout the year
and was the first college band to perform at Macy's Thanksgiving Day
Parade.[112] Membership fluctuates between 80 and 100 students.[112]

Performing arts organizations

Penn is home to numerous organizations that promote the arts, from dance to
spoken word, jazz to stand-up comedy, theatre, a cappella and more. The
Performing Arts Council (PAC) oversees 45 student organizations in these
areas.[113] The PAC has four subcommittees: A Cappella Council; Dance Arts
Council; Singer, Musicians, and Comedians (SMAC); and Theatre Arts Council
(TAC-e).

The Dance Arts Council (DAC) comprises 13 organizations, including the African
Rhythms, Pan-Asian Dance Troupe and the West Philly Swingers.[114] The Arts
House Dance Company is one of the council's most prominent groups. Founded in
1985, the Company is known for its strong technique, innovative student
choreography and vivid stage presence.[115]

Religious organizations

Dating back to 1857, The Christian Association (a.k.a. The CA) is the oldest
religious organization at the University and is composed primarily of students
from Mainline Protestant backgrounds.[116] When the University moved to its
current campus in the 1880s the CA was based out of Houston Hall. After moving
around several times it relocated to its new building at 36th and Locust
Streets (now the ARCH Building), which it occupied from 1928 until 2000.
During its most active period it ran several foreign missions as well as a
camp for socio-economically disadvantaged children in Philadelphia.[117] At
present the CA occupies part of the parsonage at Tabernacle United Church of
Christ.[118]

The Rohr Jewish Learning Institute's Sinai Scholars Society Academic Symposium
is a prestigious event that brings together Jewish college students with noted
Jewish academics for a day of in-depth discussion and debate at the
university.[119][120]

The Penn Newman Catholic Center (the 'Newman Center') was founded in 1893 with
the mission of supporting students, faculty and staff in their religious
endeavors. The organization brings prominent Christian figures to campus,
including James Martin in September 2015.[121] During the 2015 World Meetings
of Families, which included a visit from Pope Francis to Philadelphia, the
Newman Center hosted over 900 Penn students and alumni.[121]

_The Daily Pennsylvanian_

See also: The Daily Pennsylvanian

_The Daily Pennsylvanian_ is an independent, student-run newspaper, which has
been published daily since it was founded in 1885.[122] The newspaper went
unpublished from May 1943 to November 1945 due to World War II.[122] In 1984,
the university lost all editorial and financial control of _The Daily
Pennsylvanian_ when the newspaper became its own corporation.[122] In 2007,
_The Daily Pennsylvanian_ won the Pacemaker Award administered by the
Associated Collegiate Press.[123]

##  Athletics[edit]

Main article: Penn Quakers

Penn's sports teams are nicknamed the Quakers, but the teams are often also
referred to as The Red & Blue. The athletes participate in the Ivy League and
Division I (Division I FCS for football) in the NCAA. In recent decades, they
often have been league champions in football (14 times from 1982 to 2010) and
basketball (22 times from 1970 to 2006). The first athletic team at Penn was
its cricket team.[124]

Varsity rowers approach Poughkeepsie Bridge on the Hudson River, 1915

### Rowing[edit]

Rowing at Penn dates back to at least 1854 with the founding of the University
Barge Club. The university currently hosts both heavyweight and lightweight
men's teams and an openweight women's team, all of which compete as part of
the Eastern Sprints League. Penn Rowing has produced a long list of famous
coaches and Olympians, including Susan Francia, John B. Kelly Jr., Joe Burk,
Rusty Callow, Harry Parker and Ted Nash. In addition, the 1955 men's
heavyweight crew is one of only four American university crews to win the
Grand Challenge Cup at the Henley Royal Regatta. The teams row out of College
Boat Club, No.11 Boathouse Row.

### Rugby[edit]

The Penn Men's Rugby Football Club is recognized as one of the oldest
collegiate rugby teams in America. The earliest documentation of its existence
comes from a 1910 issue of the _Daily Pennsylvanian._ The team existed on and
off during the World Wars.

The current club has its roots in the 1960s and from the influence of star
winger Andrew Margolis. The University of Pennsylvania rugby teams play in the
Ivy Rugby Conference and have finished as runners-up in both 15s and 7s.[125]
As of 2011[update], the club now utilize the state-of-the-art facilities at
Penn Park. Quakers Rugby played on national TV at the 2013 Collegiate Rugby
Championship, a college rugby tournament played every June at PPL Park in
Philadelphia and broadcast live on NBC. In their inaugural year of
participation, the Penn men's rugby team won the Shield Competition, beating
local rivals Temple University 17–12 in the final. In doing so, they became
the first Philadelphia team to beat a non-Philadelphia team in CRC history,
with a 14–12 win over the University of Texas in the Shield semi-final.[126]

### Cricket[edit]

In the latter half of the nineteenth century and in the early twentieth
Philadelphia was the center of cricket in the United States. Cricket had
gained in popularity among the upper class from their travels abroad and
cricket clubs sprung up all across the Eastern Seaboard (even today
Philadelphia still has three cricket clubs—the Philadelphia, the Merion and
the Germantown). Many East Coast universities and colleges fielded cricket
teams with the University of Pennsylvania and Haverford College being two of
the best in the country. (Cricket was the first organized sport at
Pennsylvania.) The Penn Cricket Team frequently toured Canada and the British
Isles, and even defeated a combined Oxford-Cambridge team in 1895.[127]
Perhaps the University's most famous cricket player was George Patterson who
went on to play for the professional Philadelphia Cricket Team. Following the
First World War, cricket began to experience a serious decline as baseball
became the preferred sport of the warmer months, but to this day the
University still fields a cricket team.

### Football[edit]

Main article: Penn Quakers football

Franklin Field, home to football, field hockey, lacrosse and track and field

Penn first fielded a football team against Princeton at the Germantown Cricket
Club in Philadelphia on November 11, 1876.[128]

Penn football made many contributions to the sport in its early days. During
the 1890s, Penn's famed coach and alumnus George Washington Woodruff
introduced the quarterback kick, a forerunner of the forward pass, as well as
the place-kick from scrimmage and the delayed pass. In 1894, 1895, 1897 and
1904, Penn was generally regarded as the national champion of collegiate
football.[128] The achievements of two of Penn's outstanding players from that
era—John Heisman and John Outland—are remembered each year with the
presentation of the Heisman Trophy to the most outstanding college football
player of the year, and the Outland Trophy to the most outstanding college
football interior lineman of the year.

In addition, each year the Bednarik Award is given to college football's best
defensive player. Chuck Bednarik (Class of 1949) was a three-time All-American
center/linebacker who starred on the 1947 team and is generally regarded as
Penn's all-time finest. In addition to Bednarik, the 1947 squad boasted four-
time All-American tackle George Savitsky and three-time All-American halfback
Skip Minisi. All three standouts were subsequently elected to the College
Football Hall of Fame, as was their coach, George Munger (a star running back
at Penn in the early 1930s). Bednarik went on to play for 12 years with the
Philadelphia Eagles, becoming the NFL's last 60-minute man. He was elected to
the Pro Football Hall of Fame in 1969. During his presidency of the
institution from 1948 to 1953, Harold Stassen attempted to recultivate Penn's
heyday of big-time college football, but the effort lacked support and was
short-lived.

ESPN's _College GameDay_ traveled to Penn to highlight the Harvard-Penn game
on November 17, 2002, the first time the popular college football show had
visited an Ivy League campus.

###  Basketball[edit]

The Palestra, "Cathedral of Basketball"

Main article: Penn Quakers men's basketball

Penn basketball is steeped in tradition. Penn made its only (and the Ivy
League's second) Final Four appearance in 1979, where the Quakers lost to
Magic Johnson-led Michigan State in Salt Lake City. (Dartmouth twice finished
second in the tournament in the 1940s, but that was before the beginning of
formal League play.) Penn's team is also a member of the Philadelphia Big 5,
along with La Salle, Saint Joseph's, Temple and Villanova. In 2007, the men's
team won its third consecutive Ivy League title and then lost in the first
round of the NCAA Tournament to Texas A&M.

### Facilities[edit]

Franklin Field is where the Quakers play football, field hockey, lacrosse,
sprint football and track and field (and formerly soccer). It is the oldest
stadium still operating for football games and was the first stadium to sport
two tiers. It hosted the first commercially televised football game, was once
the home field of the Philadelphia Eagles, and was the site of early Army–Navy
games. Today it is also used by Penn students for recreation such as
intramural and club sports, including touch football and cricket. Franklin
Field hosts the annual collegiate track and field event "the Penn Relays."

Penn's home court, the Palestra, is an arena used for men's and women's
basketball teams, volleyball teams, wrestling team and Philadelphia Big Five
basketball, as well as high school sporting events. The Palestra has hosted
more NCAA Tournament basketball games than any other facility. Penn baseball
plays its home games at Meiklejohn Stadium.

The Olympic Boycott Games of 1980 were held at the University of Pennsylvania
in response to Moscow's hosting of the 1980 Summer Olympics following the
Soviet incursion in Afghanistan. Twenty-nine of the boycotting nations
participated in the Boycott Games.

## Notable people[edit]

Main article: List of University of Pennsylvania people

See also: List of Nobel laureates affiliated with the University of
Pennsylvania

  * Francis Hopkinson, signed the Declaration of Independence and designed the first official American Flag

  * George Clymer, Founding father; early advocate for complete independence from Britain

  * James Wilson, Founding father; one of the six original justices appointed by George Washington to the Supreme Court of the United States

  * Benjamin Rush, Founding Father of the United States; Surgeon General of the Continental Army

  * 9th President of the United States William Henry Harrison

  * Famed gunslinger John Henry "Doc" Holliday attended the Pennsylvania College of Dental Surgery

  * Martha Hughes Cannon, first female State Senator elected in the United States

  * William Wrigley, Jr., founder and eponym of the Wm. Wrigley Jr. Company

  * American poet and critic Ezra Pound, a major figure in the early modernist movement, studied at the College[129]

  * Physician and poet William Carlos Williams graduated from Penn's School of Medicine

  * Kwame Nkrumah, first President of Ghana, and previously first Prime Minister of Ghana

  * 45th President of the United States Donald Trump

  * Warren Buffett, considered by some to be one of the most successful investors in the world[130][131]

  * Arlen Specter, former U.S. Senator majored in international relations and graduated Phi Beta Kappa in 1951

  * Noam Chomsky studied philosophy and linguistics at Penn, graduating with a BA in 1949, an MA in 1951 and a PhD in 1955

  * Steve Wynn, known for his involvement in the American luxury casino and hotel industry

  * Ed Rendell, 45th Governor of Pennsylvania; 96th Mayor of Philadelphia

  * Jon Huntsman Jr., politician, businessman and diplomat

  * Elon Musk, founder and CEO of PayPal,[132] Tesla Motors[133] and SpaceX[134]

Penn has produced many alumni that have distinguished themselves in the
sciences, academia, politics, the military, arts and media. The size, quality
and diversity of Penn's alumni body have established the institution as one of
the most powerful alumni networks in the United States, as well as
internationally.[135]

Fourteen heads of state or government have attended or graduated from Penn,
including current president Donald J. Trump, former president William Henry
Harrison, who attended the medical school for less than a semester;[136]
former Prime Minister of the Philippines Cesar Virata; the first president of
Nigeria, Nnamdi Azikiwe; the first president of Ghana, Kwame Nkrumah; and the
current president of Ivory Coast, Alassane Ouattara. Other notable politicians
who hold a degree from Penn include India's Minister of State for Finance
Jayant Sinha,[137] former ambassador to China and former 2012 presidential
candidate and Utah governor Jon Huntsman, Jr., Mexico's current minister of
finance, Ernesto J. Cordero, long-serving Pennsylvania senator Arlen Specter
and former Pennsylvania governor Ed Rendell.

The university's presence in the judiciary in and outside of the United States
is also notable. It has produced three United States Supreme Court justices,
William J. Brennan, Owen J. Roberts and James Wilson, Supreme Court justices
of foreign states (e.g., Ronald Wilson of the High Court of Australia and
Ayala Procaccia of the Israel Supreme Court), European Court of Human Rights
judge Nona Tsotsoria, Irish Court of Appeal justice Gerard Hogan and founders
of international law firms, e.g. James Harry Covington (co-founder of
Covington & Burling), Martin Lipton (co-founder of Wachtell, Lipton, Rosen, &
Katz) and George Wharton Pepper (U.S. Senator from Pennsylvania and founder of
Pepper Hamilton).

Penn alumni also have a strong presence in financial and economic life. Penn
has educated several governors of central banks including Yasin Anwar (State
Bank of Pakistan), Ignazio Visco (Bank of Italy), Kim Choongsoo (Bank of
Korea), Zeti Akhtar Aziz (Central Bank of Malaysia), Pridiyathorn Devakula
(Governor, Bank of Thailand, and former Minister of Finance), Farouk El Okdah
(Central Bank of Egypt) and Alfonso Prat Gay (Central Bank of Argentina), as
well as the director of the United States National Economic Council, Gene
Sperling. Founders of technology companies include Ralph J. Roberts (co-
founder of Comcast), Elon Musk (founder of PayPal, Tesla Motors and SpaceX),
Leonard Bosack (co-founder of Cisco), David Brown (co-founder of Silicon
Graphics) and Mark Pincus (founder of Zynga, the company behind Farmville).
Other notable businessmen and entrepreneurs who attended or graduated from the
University of Pennsylvania include William S. Paley (former president of CBS),
Warren Buffett[note 4] (CEO of Berkshire Hathaway), Donald Trump, Jr., and
Ivanka Trump, Safra Catz (president and CFO of Oracle Corporation), Leonard
Lauder (chairman emeritus of Estée Lauder Companies and son of founder Estée
Lauder), Steven A. Cohen (founder of SAC Capital Advisors), Robert Kapito
(president of BlackRock, the world's largest asset manager) and P. Roy Vagelos
(former president and CEO of multinational pharmaceutical company Merck &
Co.).

Among other distinguished alumni are the current or past presidents of Harvard
University, Drew Gilpin Faust; the University of California, Mark Yudof; and
Northwestern University, Morton O. Schapiro; poets William Augustus
Muhlenberg, Ezra Pound and William Carlos Williams, linguist and political
theorist Noam Chomsky, architect Louis Kahn, cartoonist Charles Addams,
actress Candice Bergen, theatrical producer Harold Prince, counter-terrorism
expert and author Richard A. Clarke, pollster and strategist Frank Luntz,
attorney Gloria Allred, journalist Joe Klein, fashion designer Tory Burch,
recording artist John Legend and football athlete and coach John Heisman.

Within the ranks of Penn's most historic graduates are also eight signers of
the Declaration of Independence and nine signers of the Constitution. These
include George Clymer, Francis Hopkinson, Thomas McKean, Robert Morris,
William Paca, George Ross, Benjamin Rush, James Wilson, Thomas Fitzsimons,
Jared Ingersoll, Rufus King, Thomas Mifflin, Gouverneur Morris and Hugh
Williamson.

In total, 30 Penn affiliates have won Nobel Prizes, of whom four are current
faculty members and nine are alumni.[ _citation needed_ ] Penn also counts 115
members of the United States National Academies, 79 members of the Academy of
Arts and Sciences, eight National Medal of Science laureates, 108 Sloan
Fellows, 30 members of the American Philosophical Society and 170 Guggenheim
Fellowships.[ _citation needed_ ]

## Controversies[edit]

From 1930 to 1966, there were 54 documented Rowbottom riots, a student
tradition of rioting which included everything from car smashing to panty
raids.[138] After 1966, there were five more instances of "Rowbottoms", the
latest occurring in 1980.[138]

In 1965, Penn students learned that the university was sponsoring research
projects for the United States' chemical and biological weapons program.[139]
According to Herman and Rutman, the revelation that "CB Projects Spicerack and
Summit were directly connected with U.S. military activities in Southeast
Asia", caused students to petition Penn president Gaylord Harnwell to halt the
program, citing the project as being "immoral, inhuman, illegal, and
unbefitting of an academic institution".[139] Members of the faculty believed
that an academic university should not be performing classified research and
voted to re-examine the University agency which was responsible for the
project on November 4, 1965.[139]

In 1984, the Head Lab at the University of Pennsylvania was raided by members
of the Animal Liberation Front.[140] Sixty hours' worth of video footage
depicting animal cruelty was stolen from the lab.[141] The video footage was
released to PETA who edited the tapes and created the documentary _Unnecessary
Fuss_.[141] As a result of an investigation called by the Office for
Protection from Research Risks, the chief veterinarian was fired and the Head
Lab was closed.[141]

The school gained notoriety in 1993 for the water buffalo incident in which a
student who told a noisy group of black students to "shut up, you water
buffalo" was charged with violating the university's racial harassment
policy.[142]

In recent years, mental health has become an issue on campus with ten student
suicides between the years of 2013 to 2016.[143] The school responded by
launching a task force.[144]

## See also[edit]

  * Philadelphia portal
  * Pennsylvania portal
  * University portal

  * List of universities by number of billionaire alumni
  * Education in Philadelphia
  * Think Tanks and Civil Societies Program (TTCSP)
  * University of Pennsylvania Press

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** The University officially uses 1740 as its founding date and has since 1899. The ideas and intellectual inspiration for the academic institution stem from 1749, with a pamphlet published by Benjamin Franklin, (1705/1706–1790). When Franklin's institution was established, it inhabited a schoolhouse built in 1740 for another school, which never came to practical fruition. Penn archivist Mark Frazier Lloyd [1] notes: "In 1899, UPenn's Trustees adopted a resolution that established 1740 as the founding date, but good cases may be made for 1749, when Franklin first convened the Trustees, or 1751, when the first classes were taught at the affiliated secondary school for boys, Academy of Philadelphia, or 1755, when Penn obtained its collegiate charter to add a post-secondary institution, the College of Philadelphia." Princeton's library [2] presents another, diplomatically phrased view.
  2. **^** Penn is the fourth-oldest using the founding dates claimed by each institution. The College of Philadelphia (later Penn), College of New Jersey (later Princeton University) and King's College (later Columbia College, now Columbia University) all originated within a few years of each other. After initially designating 1750 as its founding date, Penn later considered 1749 to be its founding date for more than a century, including alumni observing a centennial celebration in 1849. In 1895, several elite universities in the United States convened in New York City as the "Intercollegiate Commission" at the invitation of John J. McCook, a Union Army officer during the American Civil War and member of Princeton's board of trustees who chaired its Committee on Academic Dress. The primary purpose of the conference was to standardize American academic regalia, which was accomplished through the adoption of the Intercollegiate Code on Academic Costume. This formalized protocol included a provision that henceforth academic processions would place visiting dignitaries and other officials in the order of their institution's founding dates. The following year, Penn's _The Alumni Register_ magazine, published by the General Alumni Society, began a campaign to retroactively revise the University's founding date to 1740, in order to become older than Princeton, which had been chartered in 1746. Three years later in 1899, Penn's board of trustees acceded to this alumni initiative and officially changed its founding date from 1749 to 1740, affecting its rank in academic processions as well as the informal bragging rights that come with the age-based hierarchy in academia generally. See Building Penn's Brand for more details on why Penn did this. Princeton implicitly challenges this rationale, [3] also considering itself to be the nation's fourth oldest institution of higher learning. [4] To further complicate the comparison, a University of Edinburgh-educated Presbyterian minister from Scotland, named William Tennent and his son Gilbert Tennent operated a "Log College" in Bucks County, Pennsylvania, from 1726 until 1746; some have suggested a connection between it and Princeton because five members of Princeton's first Board of Trustees were affiliated with the "Log College", including Gilbert Tennent, William Tennent, Jr., and Samuel Finley, the latter of whom later became President of Princeton. All twelve members of Princeton's first Board of Trustees were leaders from the "New Side" or "New Light" wing of the Presbyterian Church in the New Jersey, New York and Pennsylvania areas.[5] This antecedent relationship, if considered a formal lineage with institutional continuity, would justify pushing Princeton's founding date back to 1726, earlier than Penn's 1740. However, Princeton has not done so, and a Princeton historian says that "the facts do not warrant" such an interpretation. [6] Columbia also implicitly challenges Penn's use of either 1750, 1749 or 1740, as it claims to be the fifth oldest institution of higher learning in the United States (after Harvard, William & Mary, Yale and Princeton), based upon its charter date of 1754 and Penn's charter date of 1755. [7] Academic histories of American higher education generally list Penn as fifth or sixth, after Princeton and immediately before or after that of Columbia. [8] [9] [10] Even Penn's own account of its early history agrees that the original secondary school (the Academy of Philadelphia) did not add an institution of higher learning (the College of Philadelphia) until 1755, but university officials continue to make it their practice to assert their fourth-oldest place in academic processions. Other American universities which began as a colonial-era, early version of secondary schools such as St. John's College (founded as "King William's School" in 1696) and the University of Delaware (founded as "the Free Academy" in 1743) choose to march based upon the date they became institutions of higher learning. Penn History Professor Edgar Potts Cheyney was a member of the Penn class of 1883 who played a leading role in the 1896-1899 alumni campaign to change the university's formal founding date. According to Cheyney's later history of the event, the university did indeed consider its founding date to be 1749 for almost a century. However, it was changed with good reason, and primarily due to a publication about the university issued by the U.S. Commissioner of Education written by Francis Newton Thorpe, a fellow alumnus and colleague in the Penn history department. The year 1740 is the date of the establishment of the first educational trust that the University had taken upon itself. Cheyney states further that "it might be considered a lawyer's date; it is a familiar legal practice in considering the date of any institution to seek out the oldest trust it administers". He also points out that Harvard's founding date is also the year in which the Massachusetts General Court (state legislature) resolved to establish a fund in a year's time for a "School or College". As well, Princeton claims its founding date as 1746, the date of its first charter. However, the exact words of the charter are unknown, the number and names of the trustees in the charter are unknown, and no known original is extant. With the exception of Columbia University, the majority of the American Colonial Colleges do not have clear-cut dates of foundation (Edgar Potts Cheyney, "History of the University of Pennsylvania: 1740-1940", Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press, 1940: pp. 45-52).
  3. **^** In 1790, the first lecture on law was given by James Wilson; however, a full time program was not offered until 1850.[51]
  4. **^** Buffett studied at Penn for two years before he transferred to the University of Nebraska.

## References[edit]

  1. **^** As of June 30, 2017. "Penn's 14.3% Return Was Boosted by 'Notable' Stock Performance". Bloomberg. 2017. 
  2. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ _**f**_ _**g**_ _**h**_ _**i**_ _**j**_ _**k**_ _**l**_ _**m**_ _**n**_ "Penn: Penn Facts". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  November 25, 2016. 
  3. **^** "Logo & Branding Standards". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  April 1, 2016. 
  4. **^** Brownlee, David B.; Thomas, George E. (2000). _Building America's First University: An Historical and Architectural Guide to the University of Pennsylvania_. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press. ISBN 0812235150.  
  5. **^** "Office of the University Secretary: History and Meaning of Penn's Shield". Upenn.edu. 2010. Retrieved  November 14, 2013. 
  6. **^** "Penn: Penn's Heritage". Upenn.edu. 2011. Retrieved  August 18, 2011. 
  7. **^** Tannenbaum, Seth S. "Undergraduate Student Governance at Penn, 1895–2006". _University Archives and Research Center_. University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  August 19, 2011. 
  8. **^** "2016 NACUBO-Commonfund Study of Endowments" (PDF). National Association of College and University Business Officers (NACUBO). 2016. Retrieved October 7, 2017. 
  9. **^** "2010 Performance Ranking of Scientific Papers for World Universities". Higher Education Evaluation and Accreditation Council of Taiwan. Archived from the original on July 16, 2011. Retrieved  July 19, 2011. 
  10. **^** "Top 20 Colleges with the most billionaire alumni". CNNMoney. CNN. September 17, 2014. Retrieved  September 17, 2014. 
  11. **^** "Which Universities Produce the Most Billionaires?".  According to annual studies (UBS and Wealth-X Billionaire Census) by UBS and Wealth-X, the University of Pennsylvania has produced the most billionaires in the world, as measured by the number of undergraduate degree holders. Four of the top five schools were Ivy League institutions. 
  12. **^** "Penn Signers of the Constitution and the Declaration of Independence". Archives.upenn.edu. Retrieved  January 24, 2017. 
  13. **^** "Facts | University of Pennsylvania". Upenn.edu. Retrieved  January 24, 2017. 
  14. **^** "Rutgers ranked: Where the Fortune 500 CEOs Went to School". _Rutgers Business School_. May 23, 2012.  
  15. **^** https://www.usnews.com/education/best-graduate-schools/top-business-schools/articles/2012/05/14/where-the-fortune-500-ceos-went-to-school
  16. **^** Strawbridge, Justus C. (1899). _Ceremonies Attending the Unveiling of the Statue of Benjamin Franklin_. Allen, Lane & Scott. ISBN 1-103-92435-4. Retrieved  November 24, 2007. 
  17. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Montgomery, Thomas Harrison (1900). _A History of the University of Pennsylvania from Its Foundation to A. D. 1770_. Philadelphia: George W. Jacobs  & Co. LCCN 00003240. 
  18. **^** Friedman, Steven Morgan. "A Brief History of the University, University of Pennsylvania Archives". Archives.upenn.edu. Retrieved December 9, 2010. 
  19. **^** "Penn's Heritage". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  May 8, 2016. 
  20. **^** N. Landsman, From Colonials to Provincials: American Thought and Culture, 1680-1760 (Ithaca: Cornell University Press, 1997), pp. 30.
  21. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ Wood, George Bacon (1834). _The History of the University of Pennsylvania, from Its Origin to the Year 1827_. McCarty and Davis. LCCN 07007833. OCLC 760190902.  
  22. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Penn in the 18th Century, University of Pennsylvania Archives". Universdity of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  April 29, 2006. 
  23. **^** "University of Pennsylvania". World Digital Library. Retrieved  February 14, 2013. 
  24. **^** "The University of Pennsylvania: America's First University". University Archives and Records Center, University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  April 29, 2006. 
  25. **^** "Penn Trustees 1749-1800". University of Pennsylvania University Archives. Retrieved  July 23, 2013. 
  26. **^** Cheyney, Edward Potts (1940). _History of the University of Pennsylvania 1740–1940_. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press. pp. 46–48.   Cheyney was a Penn professor and alumnus from the class of 1883 who advocated the change in Penn's founding date in 1899 to appear older than both Princeton and Columbia. The explanation, "It will have been noted that 1740 is the date of the creation of the earliest of the many educational trusts the University has taken upon itself," is Professor Cheyney's justification (pp. 47-48) for Penn retroactively changing its founding date, not language used by the Board of Trustees.
  27. **^** "Presidents of Penn Alumni". _www.archives.upenn.edu_. Retrieved  August 24, 2016. 
  28. **^** Collins, Huntly (September 2, 1989). "Pushing For Performance At Penn After 8 Years, The University's President Earns Credit". _Philadelphia Inquirer_. Retrieved  August 4, 2016. 
  29. **^** Rottenberg, Dan (February 15, 1991). "Would An Ivy Label Turn It Around For Temple As It Did For Penn? At One Time, Penn Had Many Of The Same Problems Temple Has Now". _Philadelphia Inquirer_. Retrieved  August 5, 2016. 
  30. **^** Kostelni, Natalie. "Temple undertaking massive campus projects". _Philadelphia Business Journal_ (February 10, 2005). Retrieved  August 5, 2016. 
  31. **^** Thomas, George E.; Brownlee, David Bruce (2000). _Building America's First University: An Historical and Architectural Guide to the University of Pennsylvania_. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press. p.  3\. ISBN 0-8122-3515-0. 
  32. **^** "Welcome to the Department of Psychology". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  April 29, 2006. 
  33. **^** "History of the School of Medicine". University Archives and Records Center, University of Pennsylvania. Archived from the original on December 15, 2005. Retrieved  April 29, 2006. 
  34. **^** "The life and accomplishments of Sadie Tanner Mossell Alexander". University of Pennsylvania Almanac. September 3, 2002. Retrieved  March 31, 2011. 
  35. **^** Hughes, Samuel (2002). "Whiskey, Loose Women, and Fig Leaves: The University's seal has a curious history". _Pennsylvania Gazette_. **100** (3).  
  36. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Frequently Asked Questions: Questions about the University". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  October 4, 2011. 
  37. **^** Coleman, William (1749–1768). _Trustees of the University of Pennsylvania Minute Books, volume 1_. University of Pennsylvania Archives: University of Pennsylvania. pp. 36, 68.  
  38. **^** "The Tampons Look Like Tampons: A Public Reminder". _www.thedp.com_. Retrieved  May 16, 2016. 
  39. **^** "University of Pennsylvania Module 6 Utility Plant and Garage". BLT Architects. Retrieved  August 19, 2011. 
  40. **^** Clarke, Dominique (September 26, 2011). "Wistar strategic plan includes new building and research". _The Daily Pennsylvanian_. Retrieved  November 10, 2011. 
  41. **^** "Penn Library Data Farm". Retrieved  December 24, 2009. 
  42. **^** "Area Studies Collections @ Penn".  
  43. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "About Us". _Penn Museum_. University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology. Archived from the original on May 21, 2011. Retrieved  August 20, 2011. 
  44. **^** "Research at the Penn Museum". _Penn Museum_. University of Pennsylvania Museum of Archaeology and Antrhopology. Archived from the original on August 11, 2011. Retrieved  August 20, 2011. 
  45. **^** "College Houses at Penn" (PDF). _College Houses and Academic Services_. University of Pennsylvania. Archived from the original (PDF) on October 1, 2011. Retrieved August 19, 2011. 
  46. **^** "College Houses & Academic Services: University of Pennsylvania". _Collegehouses.upenn.edu_. Archived from the original on August 12, 2013. Retrieved  July 23, 2013. 
  47. **^** "Penn Police Department". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  November 3, 2016. 
  48. **^** "USPCA 2016 National Detector Dog Trials - Philadelphia" (PDF). United States Police Canine Association. Retrieved November 3, 2016. 
  49. **^** "Graduate and Professional Programs". University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  22 August 2011. 
  50. **^** "About the Graduate Division". _Penn Arts & Sciences_. University of Pennsylvania School of Arts and Sciences. Retrieved 22 August 2011. 
  51. **^** "History of Penn Law school". _Penn Law_. University of Pennsylvania Law School. Retrieved  22 August 2011. 
  52. **^** Carson, Joseph (1869). _A History of the Medical Department of the University of Pennsylvania_. Philadelphia: Lindsay and Blakiston. Wikisource.  
  53. **^** "History". _Penn Dental Medicine_. The Robert Schattner Center University of Pennsylvania School of Dental Medicine. Retrieved  22 August 2011. 
  54. **^** "History and Heritage". _Penn Engineering_. University of Pennsylvania School of Engineering and Applied Science. Retrieved  22 August 2011. 
  55. **^** "About Us". _Penn Veterinary Medicine_. University of Pennsylvania School of Veterinary Medicine. Retrieved  22 August 2011. 
  56. **^** "About Wharton". The Wharton School, University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  22 August 2011. 
  57. **^** "NETS Homepage". Penn Engineering. Retrieved  November 16, 2014. 
  58. **^** "Penn to launch joint degree program in law and medicine". _Philly.com_. Retrieved  June 22, 2016. 
  59. **^** _The Ten Toughest Schools to Get Into_ (PDF). My College Planning LLC. Archived from the original (PDF) on April 26, 2012. Retrieved July 31, 2011. 
  60. **^** Fiona Gleason (March 26, 2014). "BREAKING: Admissions Numbers Released". _The Daily Pennsylvanian_. Retrieved  March 28, 2014. 
  61. **^** "Carnegie Foundation Basic Classification "RU/VH "". Carnegie Foundation for the advancement of teaching. Retrieved August 31, 2011. 
  62. **^** "Study: Penn has $14.3B economic impact". February 18, 2016. Retrieved  February 18, 2016. 
  63. **^** "New Penn Medicine/Wharton Center to Study Health-care Financing".  
  64. **^** "Nursing Goes Global". Penn Current. June 9, 2011. Retrieved  May 8, 2016. 
  65. **^** "Morris Arboretum's Horticulture Center is a Model of Workaday Sustainability".  
  66. **^** "Wharton School Announces $15 Million Gift from Patty and Jay H. Baker to Establish the Jay H. Baker Retailing Center". The Wharton School , University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  October 6, 2014. 
  67. **^** Nadine Zylberberg (September 17, 2010). "Penn Med receives $13 million for new research center". _The Daily Pennsylvanian_. Retrieved  April 7, 2015. 
  68. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Penn's PIK Professors".  
  69. **^** "Association of Research Libraries Annual Tables".  
  70. **^** "MUP Post Doctoral Appointees Table".  
  71. **^** "The Chronicle of Higher Education Faculty Scholarly Productivity Index".  
  72. **^** Holtzman, Phyllis. "National Research Council Ranks Penn's Graduate Programs Among Nation's Best". _Penn News_. University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  November 10, 2011. 
  73. **^** "Law Journals: Submissions and Ranking". Washington and Lee University School of Law. Retrieved  November 10, 2011. 
  74. **^** Owen Roberts, William Draper Lewis, 89 U. Pa. L. Rev. 1 (1949)
  75. **^** "Wharton History".  
  76. **^** "Wharton: A Century of Innovation".  
  77. **^** John Byrne; Lori Bongiorno (October 24, 1994). "The Best B Schools Move over, Northwestern—this time, Wharton is No. 1". _Businessweek_. Retrieved  November 10, 2011. 
  78. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Important Milestones and Fascinating Innovations During the Last Fifty Years of Computing Research at the University of Pennsylvania".  
  79. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ "Some Research Highlights at PENN Medicine".  
  80. **^** "Baruch S. Blumberg". Nndb.com. Retrieved  March 18, 2012. 
  81. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "125 Influential People and Ideas" (PDF). 
  82. **^** "Wharton Model (economics) – Britannica Online Encyclopedia". Britannica.com. Retrieved  March 18, 2012. 
  83. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017: USA". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  84. **^** "America's Top Colleges". _Forbes_. July 5, 2016.  
  85. **^** "Best Colleges 2017: National Universities Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. September 12, 2016. 
  86. **^** "2016 Rankings - National Universities". _Washington Monthly_. Retrieved  September 6, 2016. 
  87. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities 2017". Shanghai Ranking Consultancy. 2017. Retrieved  August 29, 2017. 
  88. **^** "QS World University Rankings® 2018". Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. 2017. Retrieved  25 July 2017. 
  89. **^** "World University Rankings 2016-17". THE Education Ltd. Retrieved  September 21, 2016. 
  90. **^** "Best Global Universities Rankings: 2017". U.S. News & World Report LP. Retrieved  October 25, 2016. 
  91. **^** "University of Pennsylvania – U.S. News Best Grad School Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 2 June 2017. 
  92. **^** "University of Pennsylvania – U.S. News Best Global University Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 14 July 2017. 
  93. **^** "National University Rankings". _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved September 18, 2016. 
  94. **^** U.S. News Staff (January 24, 2012). "The Most Popular National Universities". Usnews.com. Retrieved March 18, 2012. 
  95. **^** "2015 College Hopes & Worries Survey Report". The Princeton Review. Retrieved  March 21, 2016. 
  96. **^** "UPenn named best college nationwide for 2015". _USA TODAY College_.  
  97. **^** "Academic Ranking of World Universities – 2015". ShanghaiRanking Consultancy. Retrieved  October 24, 2015. 
  98. **^** "World Top 300 Universities Alumni Ranking". Chasecareer.net. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved  June 6, 2012. 
  99. **^** "Research- The Center for Measuring University Performance". Mup.asu.edu. Retrieved  November 2, 2011. 
  100. **^** "Table 17. Higher education R&D expenditures, ranked by FY 2013 R&D expenditures: FYs 2004–13". National Science Foundation. Retrieved  November 3, 2015. 
  101. **^** "SIR World Report 2012 :: Global Ranking" (PDF). Archived from the original (PDF) on January 16, 2013. 
  102. **^** "International Professional Ranking Of Higher Education Institutions 2011 Survey". MINES Paris Tech. Retrieved  July 31, 2011. 
  103. **^** Burnsed, Brian (November 15, 2010). "Where CEOs at America's Largest Companies Went to College". Usnews.com. Retrieved July 1, 2012. 
  104. **^** "University of Pennsylvania Profile". _Forbes_. Retrieved  March 21, 2016. 
  105. **^** "QS Global 200 Business Schools Report 2010 North America". _TopMBA_. QS Quacquarelli Symonds Limited. Retrieved  July 31, 2011. 
  106. **^** "Amy Gutmann's salary dipped 2.7 percent from last year", _Daily Pennsylvanian_ , retrieved Jan 31, 2017 
  107. **^** "University of Pennsylvania Common Data Set 2014-14, Part B" (PDF). University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved November 3, 2015. 
  108. **^** Philomathean Society (1913). _A History of the Philomathean Society of the University of Pennsylvania_. Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania. p. 22.  
  109. **^** "Mr. Montgomery, Long-time Glee Club Director and Renaissance Man". _University of Pennsylvania Almanac_. **55** (1). July 15, 2008. Retrieved  August 20, 2011. 
  110. **^** Maa, Peter. "Penn IAA – About us". _Penn IAA_. Penn IAA. Retrieved  July 12, 2011. 
  111. **^** "Penn Debate Society".  
  112. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "Who are we?!". _Penn Band_. University of Pennsylvania Band. Retrieved  August 20, 2011. 
  113. **^** "Performing Arts Council at the University of Pennsylvania".  
  114. **^** "Performing Arts Council at the University of Pennsylvania".  
  115. **^** "Arts House Dance Company".  
  116. **^** Cheyney, Edward Potts. "A History of the University of Pennsylvania, 1740-1940." Philadelphia: University of Pennsylvania Press (1940): 433-434.
  117. **^** "Guide, Christian Association Records, 1857-2000, University of Pennsylvania University Archives".  
  118. **^** "The Christian Association at The University of Pennsylvania".  
  119. **^** Margolin, Dovid (May 20, 2015). "Sinai Scholarship: Top Students, Academics Explore Torah's Depths at National Forum". Chabad.org. 
  120. **^** CHE, JENNY (April 7, 2011). "Floch '11 presents winning paper". Dartmouth College. The Dartmouth. 
  121. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Catholic groups expecting record turnout for Pope's visit".  
  122. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ "About Us". The Daily Pennsylvanian. Retrieved  August 19, 2011. 
  123. **^** "2007 ACP Newspaper Pacemaker Winners". _ACP_. National Scholastic Press Association/Associated Collegiate Press. Retrieved  August 19, 2011. 
  124. **^** Kieran, John (October 8, 1932). "Sports of the Times". _New York Times_. p.  22. 
  125. **^** Rugby Mag, College 7s Looks to CRC, December 12, 2012, http://www.rugbymag.com/tournaments-special/crc/6668-college-7s-looks-to-crc.html
  126. **^** "Fixtures and Results". _usasevenscrc.com_.  
  127. **^** The University of Pennsylvania Archives, 'CRICKET: PENN'S FIRST ORGANIZED SPORT', http://www.archives.upenn.edu/histy/features/sports/cricket/histy.html
  128. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Rottenberg, Dan (1985) "Fight On, Pennsylvania" Trustees of University of Pennsylvania pg. 25, 28, 33, 34.
  129. **^** Moody (2007), 14; for Cheltenham Township High School, see McDonald (2005), 91, and Stock (1970), 11.
  130. **^** "Ten great investors". _Incademy Investor Education_. Harriman House Ltd. Retrieved  November 20, 2015. 
  131. **^** Farrington, Robert. "The top 10 investors of all time". _The College Investor_. The College Investor, LLC. Retrieved  November 20, 2015. 
  132. **^** He Won’t Back Down: Elon Musk, ‘‘Wharton School’’, September 1, 2010.
  133. **^** Entrepreneur Elon Musk: Why It's Important to Pinch Pennies on the Road to Riches, ‘‘Knowledge@Wharton’’, 03-27-2009
  134. **^** SpaceX Leadership: Elon Musk, ‘‘SpaceX’’, November 21, 2011.
  135. **^** Online College Tips – Online Colleges (March 14, 2011). "The 10 Most Powerful Alumni Networks | Online College Tips – Online Colleges". Onlinecollege.org. Retrieved March 18, 2012. 
  136. **^** William Henry Harrison studied medicine at Penn from 1790 until his father died in 1791; after his father's death Harrison left the University to join the army."William H. Harrison". _Ohio History Central An Online Encyclopedia of Ohio History_. Ohio Historical Society. Retrieved  August 19, 2011. 
  137. **^** » Portfolios of the Union Council of Ministers. "Portfolios of the Union Council of Ministers". _pmindia.gov.in_.  
  138. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ McConaghy, Mary D.; Ashish Shrestha. "Student Traditions Rowbottom: Documented Rowbottoms, 1910–1970". _University Archives and Records Center_. University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  August 25, 2011. 
  139. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ Herman, Edward S.; Robert J. Rutman; University of Pennsylvania (August 1967). "University of Pennsylvania's CB Warfare Controversy". _BioScience_. **17** (8): 526–529. doi:10.2307/1294007. JSTOR 1294007.  
  140. **^** "Eco-Violence: The Record". _Intelligence Report_ (107). Fall 2002. Retrieved  August 23, 2011. 
  141. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ McCarthy, Charles R. "Ethical and Policy Issues in Research Involving Human Participants". _Onlineethics.org_. Online Ethics Center for Engineering and Science. Archived from the original on April 23, 2007. Retrieved  August 23, 2011. 
  142. **^** Alan Charles Kors; Harvey A. Silverglate. "The Shadow University". _The New York Times_. Retrieved  August 17, 2013. 
  143. **^** Lala, Elisa (January 12, 2016). "Penn student's death ruled suicide; 10th in three years at university". _PhillyVoice_. WWB Holdings, LLC. Retrieved  August 4, 2016. 
  144. **^** Ozio, Ron (February 19, 2014). "Penn Forms New Task Force on Student Psychological Health and Welfare". _Penn News_. University of Pennsylvania. Retrieved  August 4, 2016. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**University of Pennsylvania**_.  
---|---  
|  Wikisource has original works on the topic: _**University of
Pennsylvania**_  
---|---  
  
  * Official website
  * University of Pennsylvania athletics website

  * v
  * t
  * e

University of Pennsylvania  
  
---  
Schools |

  * Annenberg School for Communication
    * Annenberg Public Policy Center
    * Center for Global Communication Studies
  * School of Arts and Sciences
  * School of Dental Medicine
  * School of Design
  * Graduate School of Education
  * School of Engineering and Applied Science
  * School of Law
  * Perelman School of Medicine
  * School of Nursing
  * School of Social Policy and Practice
  * School of Veterinary Medicine
  * Wharton School

|  
  
Programs |

  * Center for Advanced Judaic Studies
  * Fels Institute of Government
  * Graduate Group in the Art and Archaeology of the Mediterranean World
  * Huntsman Program in International Studies and Business
  * Jerome Fisher Program in Management and Technology
  * Lauder Institute
  * Leonard Davis Institute of Health Economics
  * Singh Program in Networked & Social Systems Engineering (NETS)
  * Vagelos Program in Life Sciences and Management
  * Vagelos Scholars Program in Molecular Life Sciences

  
  
Places |

  * University City
  * Annenberg Center for the Performing Arts
  * College Hall
  * College Houses
  * David Rittenhouse Laboratory
  * Fisher Fine Arts Library
  * Historic District
  * Houston Hall
  * Institute of Contemporary Art
  * Irvine Auditorium
  * Kelly Writers House
  * Meyerson Hall
  * Moore School of Electrical Engineering
  * Morris Arboretum
  * Museum of Archaeology and Anthropology
  * New Bolton Center
  * Penn Park
  * Perelman Quadrangle
  * Quadrangle Dormitories
  * Richards Medical Research Laboratories
  * Van Pelt Library

  
  
Athletics |

  * Penn Quakers
  * Band
  * "Fight on, Pennsylvania!"
  * Basketball 
    * Men's
    * Women's
  * College Boat Club
  * Lacrosse
  * Penn Relays
  * Soccer 
    * Men's
    * Women's
  * Class of 1923 Arena
  * Franklin Field
  * Meiklejohn Stadium
  * Palestra

  
  
Media |

  * _The Daily Pennsylvanian_
  * _Pennsylvania Punch Bowl_
  * University of Pennsylvania Press
  * Wharton School Publishing
  * WQHS Radio
  * WXPN

  
  
Life |

  * Student life
  * Notable alumni and faculty
  * Wharton School alumni
  * Mask and Wig
  * Penn Glee Club
  * Penn Masala
  * Penn MERT
  * PennApps
  * Philomathean Society
  * "Hail, Pennsylvania!"
  * "The Red and the Blue"

  
  
Links to related articles  
  
---  
  
|

  * v
  * t
  * e

Chief Administrators of the University of Pennsylvania  
  
---  
Provosts |

  * Franklin (1749–1754)
  * William Smith (1754–1779)
  * Ewing (1779–1802)
  * McDowell (1806–1810)
  * Andrews (1810–1813)
  * Beasley (1813–1828)
  * DeLancey (1828–1834)
  * Ludlow (1834–1852)
  * Vethake (1853–1859)
  * Goodwin (1860–1868)
  * Stillé (1868–1880)
  * Pepper (1881–1894)
  * Harrison (1894–1910)
  * Edgar Smith (1910–1920)
  * Penniman (1921–1930)

  
  
Presidents |

  * Gates (1930–1944)
  * McClelland (1944–1948)
  * Stassen (1948–1953)
  * DuBarry (acting, 1953)
  * Harnwell (1953–1970)
  * Myerson (1970–1981)
  * Hackney (1981–1993)
  * Fagin (interim, 1993–1994)
  * Rodin (1994–2004)
  * Gutmann (2004–present)

  
  
_The chief administrator prior to 1930 was the provost_  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Benjamin Franklin  
  
---  
  
January 6, 1706 – April 17, 1790

President of Pennsylvania (1785–1788), Ambassador to France (1779–1785)

Second Continental Congress (1775–1776)  
  
Founding of the  
United States |

  * _Join, or Die_ (1754 political cartoon)
  * Albany Plan of Union
    * Albany Congress
  * Hutchinson Letters Affair
  * Committee of Secret Correspondence
  * Committee of Five
  * Declaration of Independence
  * Model Treaty
    * Franco-American alliance
    * Treaty of Amity and Commerce
    * Treaty of Alliance
  * Staten Island Peace Conference
  * Treaty of Paris, 1783
  * Delegate, 1787 Constitutional Convention
  * Pennsylvania Provincial Assembly
  * Postmaster General
  * Founding Fathers

  
  
Inventions,  
other events |

  * Franklin's electrostatic machine
  * Bifocals
  * Franklin stove
  * Glass armonica
  * Gulf Stream exploration, naming, and chart
  * Lightning rod
  * Kite experiment
  * Pay it forward
  * Associators
    * 111th Infantry Regiment
  * Junto club
  * American Philosophical Society
  * Library Company of Philadelphia
  * Pennsylvania Hospital
  * The Academy and College of Philadelphia
    * University of Pennsylvania
  * Philadelphia Contributionship
  * Union Fire Company
  * Early American currency
  * Fugio Cent
  * United States Postal Service
  * President, Pennsylvania Abolition Society
  * Master, Les Neuf Sœurs
  * Other social contributions and studies
  * Gravesite

  
  
Writings |

  * Silence Dogood letters (1722)
  * _A Dissertation on Liberty and Necessity, Pleasure and Pain _(1725)__
  * The Busy-Body letters  (1729)
  * _Pennsylvania Gazette _(1729–1790)__
  * _Poor Richard's Almanack _(1732–1758)__
  * The Drinker's Dictionary  (1737)
  * "Advice to a Friend on Choosing a Mistress" (1745)
  * "The Speech of Polly Baker" (1747)
  * _Observations Concerning the Increase of Mankind, Peopling of Countries, etc. _(1751)__
  * _Experiments and Observations on Electricity _(1751)__
  * Birch letters  (1755)
  * _The Way to Wealth _(1758)__
  * _Pennsylvania Chronicle_ (1767)
  * _Rules by Which a Great Empire May Be Reduced to a Small One_ (1773)
  * Proposed alliance with the Iroquois (1775)
  * _A Letter To A Royal Academy _(1781)__
  * _Remarks Concerning the Savages of North America_ (1784)
  * _The Morals of Chess _(1786)__
  * _An Address to the Public _(1789)__
  * _A Plan for Improving the Condition of the Free Blacks _(1789)__
  * _The Autobiography of Benjamin Franklin _(1771–90, pub. 1791)__
  * _Bagatelles and Satires _(pub. 1845)__
  * Franklin as a journalist

  
  
Legacy |

  * Franklin Court
  * Benjamin Franklin House
  * Benjamin Franklin Institute of Technology
  * Benjamin Franklin National Memorial
  * Franklin Institute
  * Benjamin Franklin Medal
  * Depicted in _The Apotheosis of Washington_
  * _Benjamin Franklin_ statue, Washington D.C.
  * In popular culture
    * _Ben and Me_ (1953 short)
    * _Ben Franklin in Paris_ (1964 musical play)
    * _1776_ (1969 musical
    * 1972 film)
    * _Benjamin Franklin_ (1974 miniseries)
    * _Liberty!_ (1997 documentary series)
    * _Liberty's Kids_ (2002 animated series)
    * _Benjamin Franklin_ (2002 documentary series)
    * _John Adams_ (2008 miniseries)
    * _Sons of Liberty_ (2015 miniseries)
    * Sons of Ben (supporters group for the Philadelphia Union soccer club
  * Refunding Certificate
  * Franklin half dollar
  * One-hundred dollar bill
  * Washington-Franklin stamps
    * other stamps
  * Cities, counties, schools named for Franklin
  * Franklin Field
  * State of Franklin
  * Ships named USS _Franklin_
  * Ben Franklin effect

  
  
Related |

  * Age of Enlightenment
  * American Enlightenment
  * _The New-England Courant_
  * _The American Museum_ magazine
  * American Revolution
    * patriots
  * Syng inkstand

  
  
Family |

  * Deborah Read (wife)
  * Sarah Franklin Bache (daughter)
  * Francis Franklin (son)
  * William Franklin (son)
  * Richard Bache Jr. (grandson)
  * Benjamin F. Bache (grandson)
  * Louis F. Bache (grandson)
  * William Franklin (grandson)
  * Andrew Harwood (great-grandson)
  * Alexander Bache (great-grandson)
  * Josiah Franklin (father)
  * Jane Mecom (sister)
  * James Franklin (brother)
  * Mary Morrell Folger (grandmother)
  * Peter Folger (grandfather)
  * Richard Bache (son-in-law)
  * Ann Smith Franklin (sister-in-law)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Ivy League  
  
---  
  
  * Brown Bears
  * Columbia Lions
  * Cornell Big Red
  * Dartmouth Big Green
  * Harvard Crimson
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Penn Quakers
  * Yale Bulldogs

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Philadelphia Big 5  
  
---  
Schools |

  * La Salle University
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * Saint Joseph's University
  * Temple University
  * Villanova University

  
  
Teams |

  * La Salle Explorers
  * Penn Quakers
  * St. Joe's Hawks
  * Temple Owls
  * Villanova Wildcats

  
  
Arenas |

  * Hagan Arena
  * Liacouras Center
  * Palestra
  * The Pavilion
  * Tom Gola Arena

  
  
Related |

  * City 6
  * Holy War
  * Robert V. Geasey Trophy
  * St. Joe's–Temple Rivalry
  * Battle of 33rd Street

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Sports teams based in and around Philadelphia  
  
---  
Baseball |

MLB

    Philadelphia Phillies
IL

    Lehigh Valley IronPigs
EL

    Reading Fightin Phils
    Trenton Thunder
CL

    Wilmington Blue Rocks

|

  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
Basketball |

NBA

    Philadelphia 76ers
G League

    Delaware 87ers  
  
Football |

NFL

    Philadelphia Eagles
AFL

    Philadelphia Soul
NAL

    Lehigh Valley Steelhawks
WFA

    Philadelphia Phantomz
IWFL

    Philadelphia Firebirds  
  
Hockey |

NHL

    Philadelphia Flyers
AHL

    Lehigh Valley Phantoms
ECHL

    Reading Royals
NAHL

    Philadelphia Rebels
EHL

    Philadelphia Little Flyers
    Philadelphia Junior Flyers
    Philadelphia Revolution  
  
Rugby league |

USARL

    Bucks County Sharks
    Delaware Black Foxes
    Philadelphia Fight  
  
Roller derby |

WFTDA

    Diamond State Roller Girls
    Philly Roller Derby  
  
Soccer |

MLS

    Philadelphia Union
USL

    Bethlehem Steel FC
NPSL

    Junior Lone Star FC
PDL

    Lehigh Valley United Sonic
    Reading United A.C.
ASL

    Philadelphia Fury  
  
Tennis |

WTT

    Philadelphia Freedoms  
  
Lacrosse |

NLL

    Philadelphia Wings  
  
College athletics  
(NCAA Div. I) |

  * Drexel University Dragons
  * La Salle University Explorers
  * Saint Joseph's University Hawks
  * Temple University Owls
  * University of Pennsylvania Quakers
  * Villanova University Wildcats
  * Lafayette College Leopards
  * Lehigh University Mountain Hawks
  * Rider University Broncs
  * University of Delaware Blue Hens

See also: Philadelphia Big 5 and City 6  
  
College athletics  
(NCAA Div. II) |

  * Philadelphia University Rams
  * University of the Sciences Devils
  * West Chester University Golden Rams
  * Wilmington University Wildcats

  
  
Currently defunct teams |

Further information: Template:Defunct Philadelphia sports teams  
  
Main article: Sports in Philadelphia  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Association of American Universities  
  
---  
Public |

  * Arizona
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Florida
  * Georgia Tech
  * Illinois
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * Kansas
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Missouri
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * North Carolina
  * Ohio State
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * Texas
  * Texas A&M
  * Virginia
  * Washington
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brandeis
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Emory
  * Harvard
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northwestern
  * NYU
  * UPenn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * USC
  * Stanford
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * Wash U
  * Yale

  
  
Canadian (public) |

  * McGill
  * Toronto

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Universities Research Association  
  
---  
Public |

  * Alabama
  * Arizona
  * Arizona State
  * California
    * Berkeley
    * Davis
    * Irvine
    * Los Angeles
    * Riverside
    * San Diego
    * Santa Barbara
  * Colorado
  * Colorado State
  * Florida
  * Florida State
  * Houston
  * Illinois
    * Chicago
    * Urbana–Champaign
  * Indiana
  * Iowa
  * Iowa State
  * LSU
  * Maryland
  * Michigan
  * Michigan State
  * Minnesota
  * Mississippi
  * Nebraska
  * New Mexico
  * New Mexico State
  * North Carolina
  * North Texas
  * Northern Illinois
  * Ohio State
  * Oklahoma
  * Oregon
  * Penn State
  * Pittsburgh
  * Purdue
  * Rutgers
  * South Carolina
  * SUNY
    * Buffalo
    * Stony Brook
  * Tennessee
  * Texas
    * Arlington
    * Austin
    * Dallas
  * Texas A&M
  * Texas Tech
  * Virginia
  * Virginia Tech
  * Washington
  * Wayne State
  * William & Mary
  * Wisconsin

  
  
Private |

  * Boston U
  * Brown
  * Caltech
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Case Western Reserve
  * Chicago
  * Columbia
  * Cornell
  * Duke
  * Harvard
  * Illinois Tech
  * Johns Hopkins
  * MIT
  * Northeastern
  * Northwestern
  * Notre Dame
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rice
  * Rochester
  * Rockefeller
  * SMU
  * Stanford
  * Syracuse
  * Tufts
  * Tulane
  * Vanderbilt
  * WUSTL
  * Yale

  
  
International |

  * McGill
  * Toronto
  * Pisa
  * Waseda
  * Manchester
  * Liverpool
  * UCL

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

568 Group  
  
---  
  
  * Amherst College
  * Boston College
  * Claremont McKenna College
  * College of the Holy Cross
  * Columbia University
  * Cornell University
  * Dartmouth College
  * Davidson College
  * Duke University
  * Emory University
  * Georgetown University
  * Grinnell College
  * Haverford College
  * Massachusetts Institute of Technology
  * Middlebury College
  * Northwestern University
  * Pomona College
  * St. John's College
  * Swarthmore College
  * University of Notre Dame
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * Vanderbilt University
  * Wellesley College
  * Williams College

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colonial colleges  
  
---  
  
  * Brown
  * Columbia
  * Dartmouth
  * Harvard
  * Penn
  * Princeton
  * Rutgers
  * William & Mary
  * Yale

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Largest United States university campuses by enrollment  
  
---  
  
  * Arizona State University
  * University of Central Florida
  * Ohio State University
  * Florida International University
  * Texas A&M University
  * University of Texas at Austin
  * Michigan State University
  * University of Florida
  * University of Minnesota
  * Indiana University

  
  
(2013–14 Academic Year)  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Private colleges and universities in Pennsylvania  
  
---  
Liberal arts  
colleges |

  * Albright
  * Allegheny
  * Bryn Mawr
  * Cedar Crest
  * Chatham
  * Dickinson
  * Elizabethtown
  * Franklin & Marshall
  * Geneva
  * Gettysburg
  * Grove City
  * Haverford
  * Juniata
  * King's
  * Lafayette
  * Lebanon Valley
  * Lycoming
  * Marywood
  * Mercyhurst
  * Messiah
  * Moravian
  * Muhlenberg
  * Saint Vincent
  * Susquehanna
  * Swarthmore
  * Ursinus
  * Washington & Jefferson
  * Waynesburg
  * Westminster
  * Wilson
  * York

  
  
Universities  
and colleges |

  * Alvernia
  * The American College
  * Arcadia
  * Art Institute of Philadelphia
  * Bucknell
  * Bryn Athyn
  * Cabrini
  * Cairn
  * Carlow
  * Carnegie Mellon
  * Central Penn
  * Chestnut Hill
  * Clarks Summit University
  * Curtis Institute of Music
  * Delaware Valley
  * DeSales
  * Drexel
  * Duquesne
  * Eastern
  * Gannon
  * Gratz
  * Gwynedd Mercy
  * Harcum
  * Harrisburg University of Science and Technology
  * Holy Family
  * Hussian School of Art
  * Immaculata
  * Keystone
  * La Roche
  * La Salle
  * Lackawanna
  * Lancaster Bible
  * Lehigh
  * Manor
  * Marywood
  * Misericordia
  * Moore College of Art and Design
  * Mount Aloysius
  * Neumann
  * Peirce
  * Pennsylvania College of Art and Design
  * Philadelphia
  * Point Park
  * Robert Morris
  * Rosemont
  * St. Charles Borromeo Seminary
  * Saint Francis
  * Saint Joseph's
  * Salus
  * Seton Hill
  * Thiel
  * Thomas Jefferson
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * University of Scranton
  * University of the Arts
  * University of the Sciences in Philadelphia
  * University of Valley Forge
  * Villanova
  * Widener
  * Wilkes

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Colleges and universities in metropolitan Philadelphia  
  
---  
  
  * The American College of Financial Services
  * Arcadia University
  * Art Institute of Philadelphia
  * Bryn Mawr College
  * Cabrini College
  * Cairn University
  * Chestnut Hill College
  * Cheyney University
  * Curtis Institute of Music
  * Delaware Valley University
  * Drexel University
  * Eastern University
  * Gratz College
  * Gwynedd Mercy University
  * Haverford College
  * Holy Family University
  * Immaculata University
  * La Salle University
  * Lincoln University
  * Manor College
  * Moore College of Art and Design
  * Neumann University
  * Peirce College
  * Penn State Abington
  * Penn State Brandywine
  * Penn State Great Valley
  * Pennsylvania Academy of the Fine Arts
  * Philadelphia College of Osteopathic Medicine
  * Philadelphia University
  * Reconstructionist Rabbinical College
  * The Restaurant School
  * Rosemont College
  * Rutgers University
    * Camden
    * Biomedical and Health Sciences
  * Saint Joseph's University
  * Salus University
  * Swarthmore College
  * Temple University
  * Thomas Jefferson University
  * University of the Arts
  * University of Delaware
  * University of the Sciences in Philadelphia
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * University of Valley Forge
  * Ursinus College
  * Villanova University
  * West Chester University
  * Westminster Theological Seminary
  * Widener University

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Eastern Association of Rowing Colleges  
  
---  
  
  * BU Terriers
  * Brown Bears
  * Columbia Lions
  * Cornell Big Red
  * Dartmouth Big Green
  * Georgetown Hoyas
  * Harvard Crimson
  * Holy Cross Crusaders
  * MIT Engineers
  * Navy Midshipmen
  * Northeastern Huskies
  * Penn Quakers
  * Princeton Tigers
  * Rutgers Scarlet Knights
  * Syracuse Orange
  * Wisconsin Badgers
  * Yale Bulldogs

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Philadelphia College Radio Collective  
  
---  
  
  * Bryn Mawr College
  * Haverford College
  * La Salle University
  * Princeton University
  * Saint Joseph's University
  * Swarthmore College
  * Temple University
  * University of Pennsylvania
  * Villanova University

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 267632219
  * LCCN: n79065482
  * ISNI: 0000 0004 1936 8972
  * GND: 37246-8
  * SUDOC: 14446389X

  
  
---|---  
  
Coordinates: 39°57′N 75°11′W﻿ / ﻿39.95°N 75.19°W﻿ / 39.95; -75.19

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=University_of_Pennsylvania&oldid=816070103"

Categories:

  * University of Pennsylvania
  * 1740 establishments in Pennsylvania
  * Collegiate Gothic architecture in the United States
  * Colonial colleges
  * Eastern Pennsylvania Rugby Union
  * Educational institutions established in the 1740s
  * Gothic Revival architecture in Pennsylvania
  * Philadelphia Big 5
  * Universities and colleges in Pennsylvania
  * Universities and colleges in Philadelphia
  * University City, Philadelphia
  * V-12 Navy College Training Program

Hidden categories:

  * Use mdy dates from February 2017
  * Articles containing Latin-language text
  * Pages using deprecated image syntax
  * Instances of Infobox university using image size
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2011
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2017
  * Articles containing potentially dated statements from 2011
  * All articles containing potentially dated statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from November 2015
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Coordinates on Wikidata

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * العربية
  * Azərbaycanca
  * تۆرکجه
  * বাংলা
  * Bân-lâm-gú
  * Беларуская
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Gàidhlig
  * 客家語/Hak-kâ-ngî
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Кыргызча
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * മലയാളം
  * مصرى
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Русский
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * Simple English
  * Slovenščina
  * Српски / srpski
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Tagalog
  * தமிழ்
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * ئۇيغۇرچە / Uyghurche
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * 粵語
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 19 December 2017, at 01:55.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

