

# Chancellor (education)

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from University president)

Jump to: navigation, search

"Vice-Chancellor" redirects here. For other uses of "vice-chancellor", see
Vice-Chancellor (disambiguation). For other uses of "chancellor", see
Chancellor (disambiguation).

|

This article **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(June 2012)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
A **chancellor** is a leader of a college or university, usually either the
executive or ceremonial head of the university or of a university campus.

In most Commonwealth and former Commonwealth nations, the chancellor is
usually a ceremonial non-resident head of the university. In such
institutions, the chief executive of a university is the **vice-chancellor** ,
who may carry an additional title, such as "president & vice-chancellor". The
chancellor may serve as chairman of the governing body; if not, this duty is
often held by a chairman who may be known as a pro-chancellor.

In many countries, the administrative and educational head of the university
is known as the president, principal or rector. In the United States, the head
of a university is most commonly a university president. In U.S. university
systems that have more than one affiliated university or campus, the executive
head of a specific campus may have the title of chancellor and report to the
overall system's president, or vice versa.

## Contents

  * 1 Chancellor
    * 1.1 Australia and New Zealand
    * 1.2 Canada, United Kingdom, and Sri Lanka
    * 1.3 Finland
    * 1.4 France
    * 1.5 Germany and Poland
    * 1.6 Hong Kong
    * 1.7 Turkey, Russia, and Ukraine
    * 1.8 India
    * 1.9 Ireland
    * 1.10 Malaysia
    * 1.11 Philippines
    * 1.12 Pakistan
    * 1.13 Bangladesh
    * 1.14 Nepal
    * 1.15 United States
  * 2 University president
    * 2.1 France
    * 2.2 United Kingdom
    * 2.3 United States
  * 3 Vice-chancellor
    * 3.1 Australia and New Zealand
    * 3.2 Canada and the United Kingdom
    * 3.3 India
    * 3.4 Bangladesh
    * 3.5 Sri Lanka
    * 3.6 Sudan
    * 3.7 Kenya
    * 3.8 Nigeria
    * 3.9 Ireland
    * 3.10 Philippines
    * 3.11 Sweden
    * 3.12 United States
  * 4 Principal
    * 4.1 United Kingdom
    * 4.2 Canada
    * 4.3 South Africa
  * 5 See also
  * 6 References

## Chancellor[edit]

### Australia and New Zealand[edit]

In both Australia and New Zealand, a chancellor is the chairman of a
university's governing body; thus, as well as having ceremonial duties, the
chancellor participates in the governance of the university (but not its
active management). The chancellor is assisted by a deputy chancellor (known
as the pro-chancellor in some universities). The chancellor and deputy
chancellor are frequently drawn from the senior ranks of business or the
judiciary (it is one of the few jobs considered compatible with judicial
service). Some universities have a visitor who is senior to the chancellor.[
_citation needed_ ] University disputes can be appealed from the governing
board to the visitor (as is still the case in the UK), but nowadays, such
appeals are generally prohibited by legislation, and the position has only
ceremonial functions (unlike the chancellor and deputy chancellor, who
frequently preside at functions such as graduations, the visitor rarely
attends university functions). The vice-chancellor usually serves as the chief
executive of the university.

Macquarie University in Sydney is a noteworthy anomaly as it once had the
unique position of _Emeritus Deputy Chancellor_ , a post created for John
Lincoln upon his retirement from his long-held post of deputy chancellor in
2000. The position was not merely an honorary title, as it also retained for
Lincoln a place in the University Council until his death in 2011.

### Canada, United Kingdom, and Sri Lanka[edit]

See also: Ancient university governance in Scotland, Category:Canadian
university and college chancellors, and Chancellor of the University of St
Andrews

Lord Grenville as Chancellor of the University of Oxford; painting by William
Owen

The Chancellor of the University of Oxford, Lord Patten, in procession at
Encaenia, 2009

Canadian universities and British universities in Scotland have a titular
chancellor similar to those in England and Wales, with day-to-day operations
typically handled by a _principal_. In Scotland, for example, the chancellor
of the University of Edinburgh is Anne, Princess Royal, whilst the current
chancellor of the University of Aberdeen is Camilla, Duchess of Rothesay.

In Canada, the vice-chancellor usually carries the joint title of "president
and vice-chancellor" or "rector and vice-chancellor." Scottish principals
generally carry the title of "principal and vice-chancellor."

In Scotland, the title and post of rector is reserved to the third ranked
official of university governance. The position exists in common throughout
the five ancient universities of Scotland with rectorships in existence at the
universities of St Andrews, Glasgow, Aberdeen, Edinburgh and Dundee, which is
also considered to have ancient status as a result of its early connections to
the University of St Andrews. The position of Lord Rector was given legal
standing by virtue of the Universities (Scotland) Act 1889.

Rectors appoint a rector's assessor, effectively a deputy or stand-in, who may
carry out their functions when they are absent from the university. The Rector
chairs meetings of the university court, the governing body of the university,
and is elected by the matriculated student body at regular intervals (usually
every three years to enable every undergraduate who obtains a degree to vote
at least once). An exception exists at Edinburgh, where the (Lord) Rector is
elected by both students and staff.

### Finland[edit]

In Finland, if the university has a chancellor (Finnish: _Kansleri_ , Swedish:
_Kansler_ ), he is the leading official in the university. The duties of the
chancellor are mainly to promote sciences and to look after the best interests
of the university. As the rector of the university (Finnish: _rehtori_ ,
Swedish: _rektor_ ) remains the de facto administrative leader and chief
executive official, the role of the chancellor is more of a social, political
and even historical nature. However some administrative duties still belong to
the chancellor's jurisdiction despite their often arguably ceremonial nature.
Examples of these include the appointment of new professors and docents.

The chancellor of University of Helsinki (the oldest, largest and most
prestigious in Finland) has also the notable right to be present and to speak
in the plenary meetings of the Council of State when matters regarding the
university are discussed. Despite his role as the chancellor of only one
university, he is often regarded as the political representative of Finland's
entire university institution when he exercises his rights in the Council of
State.

In the history of Finland the office of the chancellor dates all the way back
to the Swedish Empire, and later the Russian Empire. Historically the
chancellor's duty was to function as the official representative of the
monarch in the autonomous university.

The number of chancellors in Finnish universities has declined over the years,
and in vast majority of Finnish universities the highest official is the
rector. The remaining universities with chancellors are University of
Helsinki, University of Turku, University of Tampere and Åbo Akademi
University.

### France[edit]

In France, chancellor ( _chancelier_ ) is one of the titles of the rector (
_recteur_ ), a senior civil servant of the Ministry of Education serving as
manager of a regional educational district ( _académie_ ). In his capacity as
chancellor, the rector awards academic degrees to the university's graduates,
oversees the legality of the universities executive acts and channels funding
from the ministry. The rector has no executive function in any university, but
remains a member _ex officio_ of the board of every public university in his
district.

###  Germany and Poland[edit]

In Germany (der Kanzler) and Poland (kanclerz), the chancellor is the head of
many universities' administration and the leader of the non-academic staff
while the rector is the academic head. In Poland, the main academic bodies of
the university consists of: rektor (the head of the university), prorektor
(deputy rektor), dziekan (the head of the faculty), prodziekan (deputy
dziekan), senat (the main council of the university). In universities with
presidential constitution, the university's president holds both the functions
of chancellor and rector.

### Hong Kong[edit]

In Hong Kong, the Chief Executive of Hong Kong (and before 1997, Governor of
Hong Kong) acts as the chancellor of all chartered universities, which
includes all eight public universities and Open University of Hong Kong.[1]
Day-to-day operation is in the hands of either a vice-chancellor (older and
established institutions) or a president (in newer institutions), depending on
the institution.

### Turkey, Russia, and Ukraine[edit]

In Turkey, Russia, and Ukraine, the chancellor is the head of the university
and is called "rector." Some universities in Russia and Ukraine have
figurehead "presidents."

### India[edit]

In India, almost all universities have a chancellor as their titular head
whose function is largely ceremonial. The governor of the state, appointed as
the union's representative of state by the president, acts as the chancellor
of the university. The de facto head of the university is the vice-chancellor.
In private non-profit universities, normally the head of the foundation who
has established the university is the chancellor of the university and is the
head of the university. His equivalent for engineering institutes is the
director, even for those engineering institutes that are university
equivalents like the Indian Institutes of Technology.

For private university unlike the chancellor who heads the conventional Indian
'state university', the private university is headed by a president or
chairman of private organization and have other posts like vice-chancellors,
deans of faculties, registrar and controller of examinations.[2]

### Ireland[edit]

In Ireland, the four universities all have a chancellor as their figurehead
leader. However, day-to-day operations of the universities are under the
directorship of a president (a provost in the case of Trinity College,
Dublin). The National University of Ireland's constituent universities do not
have a chancellor each; rather, the president of each constituent university
has the title of Pro-Vice-Chancellor of the NUI. In Dublin City University and
the University of Limerick, the chancellor is also the chairman of the
university's governing authority.

### Malaysia[edit]

In Malaysia, the chancellor position is given to dignitaries such as royalty
or prominent politicians by universities to represent the universities in the
political arena. For example, the chancellor of University of Malaya, the
oldest university in Malaysia is Sultan Nazrin Shah, the Sultan of Perak. His
father, Sultan Azlan Shah also served as chancellor at the same university
until his death in 2014.

The chancellor of Universiti Putra Malaysia is the current Sultan of Selangor,
Sultan Sharafuddin Idris Shah, while the current Yang di-Pertuan Besar of
Negeri Sembilan, Tunku Muhriz is the chancellor of Universiti Kebangsaan
Malaysia.

The chancellor of Universiti Tun Hussein Onn Malaysia, a university situated
in the state of Johor, is the current Sultan of Johor, Sultan Ibrahim.

Datin Seri Jeanne Abdullah, the wife of the former Prime Minister of Malaysia,
Datuk Seri Abdullah Ahmad Badawi was appointed as the new chancellor of Open
University Malaysia to take over the role from the first chancellor, the late
YBhg Datin Paduka Seri Endon Mahmood (Abdullah Badawi's first wife).

Recently, UCSI in Kuala Lumpur has given recognition to Tan Sri Datuk Seri
Panglima Dr. Abdul Rahman Arshad as its first chancellor.

### Philippines[edit]

In the Philippines, the De La Salle University designates the head of its
university as the chancellor. For the University of the Philippines, the
entire system is headed by a president, while the eight constituent
universities under the system is each headed by a chancellor. The chancellor
designates the different vice-chancellors for different areas of concern of
the university: academic affairs, finance, and community affairs, among
others. Some more universities like University of Santo Tomas and other
colleges, institutions have chancellors. Its Chancellor is the incumbent
Master of the Order of Preachers (Dominicans) meanwhile, the Vice Chancellor
is the Prior Provincial of the Dominican Province of the Philippines. Their
roles are largely ceremonial. The University of Santo Tomas is governed mainly
by its Rector Magnificus in overseeing its academic, financial and other
affairs. On the other hand, the San Beda System, has the Prior or the Abbot of
Our Lady of Montserrat Abbey (Manila) as its Chancellor for its Constituent
Units while a Rector-President heads each Constituent Unit.

Other universities in the Philippines (such as state universities like
Mindanao State University where each constituent campus is headed by
chancellor) are mostly headed by their respective university presidents.
Meanwhile, private (esp. Catholic) institutions are headed by a Rector.

### Pakistan[edit]

In Pakistan, chancellor is normally the figurehead of the university, who is
normally the provincial governor where that university exists. Day-to-day
business of the university is run by the vice chancellor.

### Bangladesh[edit]

Chancellor is a titular position in Bangladesh always held by the incumbent
President of Bangladesh under the Private Universities Act 1992.[3] The
position in public universities is not fixed for the president under any acts
or laws (since the erection of a state university in Bangladesh requires an
act to be passed in itself),[4] but it has been the custom so far to name the
incumbent president of the country as chancellor of all state universities
thus established. The day-to-day business of the university is run by the vice
chancellor. He has a deputy called the pro-vice-chancellor.

### Nepal[edit]

In Nepal, universities have a chancellor as ceremonial head. The de facto head
of the university is the vice-chancellor. The chancellor is primarily
responsible for attending the convocation programmes and accepting the
resignation and appointment letter of a new vice-chancellor. Generally, the
prime minister is considered the chancellor, and in his absence, the minister
of education acts as the chancellor.

### United States[edit]

See also: List of longest serving higher education presidents

In the United States, heads of colleges and universities are typically called
"president." A multi-campus university system may be headed by a chancellor
who serves as system-wide chief, with presidents governing individual
institutions: for example, the City University of New York. There are also
some university systems, such as the North Carolina, Illinois, Missouri,
Massachusetts, Wisconsin and California university systems, in which those two
titles are reversed. At Rutgers, The State University of New Jersey, which is
a single unified university with three campuses, the chief officers of the two
smaller campuses at Camden and Newark are called chancellors, a renaming from
"provost." Rutgers University itself has a president as the chief officer.

Presidents are the functional chief executive officers of most standalone U.S.
universities; however, a few universities, such as Syracuse University and the
University of Pittsburgh, have a chancellor as the chief executive officer.
There are occasional other uses of the title chancellor. The College of
William & Mary uses chancellor in the British sense, as a figurehead leader,
but the actual executive of the school is the "president," not a "vice-
chancellor." Some schools, such as Lubbock Christian University, give the
ceremonial title of "chancellor" to a retiring university president. The
Catholic University of America is headed by a president (formerly "rector"),
with the Archbishop of Washington serving as chancellor, a ceremonial position
but one which does require the archbishop to represent the university before
the Holy See. This scenario, while not always exactly duplicated, is typical
in other Catholic universities due to the Catholic hierarchy. In some schools
run by Catholic religious orders, the rector of the community supersedes the
president when the individual is a member of that religious order.

The title "chancellor" is sometimes used in K-12 education in a sense similar
to superintendent of schools, particularly in urban school districts. The New
York City Schools Chancellor is the chief executive officer of the New York
City Department of Education, which manages the city's public school system
(the largest in the United States). The leader of the District of Columbia
Public Schools system is also referred to as the chancellor.

## University president[edit]

University president is the title of the highest-ranking officer within the
academic administration of a university, within university systems that prefer
that appellation over other variations such as chancellor or rector. The
relative seniority varies between institutions.

### France[edit]

In France, the president is the elected chair of the board and chief executive
officer in universities. The president is always elected by the board among
the professors of the university. He serves a four-year term.[5] The
chancellor is a servant of the Ministry of Education who supervises regional
educational districts. There is no hierarchical relation between the president
and the chancellor.

### United Kingdom[edit]

In Northern Ireland, the president is the chief academic and administrative
officer of the university and is usually also the vice-chancellor of the
university. The private London based liberal-arts university Richmond, The
American International University in London utilises the same system as in the
United States but also with a ceremonial Chancellor as figurehead.[6]

### United States[edit]

In most stand-alone universities and colleges in the United States, the chief
executive officer is called the president, while the second in command is
called the provost. In some multi-campus state university systems, the
chancellor has authority over all universities in the system, and therefore
ranks higher than the presidents of individual universities within the system.
In other state university systems, the president has authority over multiple
campuses, each of which is headed by a chancellor who is under the authority
of the president.

The average salary for a college presidents in private, non-profit
institutions in 2015 was $569,932, 9 percent higher than in 2014.[7]

## Vice-chancellor[edit]

A "vice-chancellor" (commonly called a "VC") of a university in England,
Wales, Northern Ireland, New Zealand, Australia, India, Bangladesh, Malaysia,
Nigeria, Pakistan, Sri Lanka, South Africa, other Commonwealth countries, and
some universities in Hong Kong is the chief executive of the university. In
Scotland, Canada, and Ireland, the chief executive of a university is usually
called principal or president with _vice-chancellor_ being an honorific
associated with this title, allowing the individual to bestow degrees in
absence of the chancellor.

Strictly speaking, the VC is only a deputy to the chancellor of the
university, but the chancellor is usually a prominent public figure who acts
as a ceremonial figurehead only (e.g., the chancellor of the University of
Cambridge for 36 years was Prince Philip), while the vice-chancellor acts as
the day-to-day chief executive. An assistant to a vice-chancellor is called a
pro-vice-chancellor or deputy vice-chancellor; these were traditionally
academics who were elected to take on additional responsibilities in addition
to their regular teaching and research for a limited time, but are now
increasingly commonly permanent appointments. In some universities (e.g. in
Australian universities: Deakin University, Macquarie University), there are
several deputy vice-chancellors subordinate to the vice-chancellor, with _pro-
vice-chancellor_ being a position at executive level ranking below _deputy
vice-chancellor_.

There are a few exceptions within England. For example, the charter of the
University of Manchester provides for the vice-chancellor to also use the
title president, and the first vice-chancellor, Alan Gilbert (2004–10), used
president as his main title. The University of Warwick now officially uses
"vice-chancellor and president" (VCP), although the holder is usually still
known as the vice-chancellor in all but official documents. The chief
executives of the constituent colleges of the University of London, many of
which are now functionally independent universities, generally use the title
"Principal", although the chief executive of Imperial College has the title
Rector.

### Australia and New Zealand[edit]

The executive head of an Australian university is the vice-chancellor, who
serves as the university equivalent of a chief executive officer.[8] The vice-
chancellor is responsible for the day-to-day operations of the university and
reports directly to the University Council, which the chancellor heads.[9]
Assisting the vice-chancellor, the roles of deputy vice-chancellors and pro
vice-chancellors have emerged to better manage the administrative overhead of
the position.[10]

### Canada and the United Kingdom[edit]

William Smyth, Vice-Chancellor of the University of Oxford; painting by
Gilbert Jackson

Canadian university vice-chancellors almost always carry the title of
"president (or equivalent) and vice-chancellor"; likewise, in Scotland, they
hold the position of "principal and vice-chancellor," as do a few Canadian
universities such as Queen's and McGill. In the Scottish practice, the one
individual may have two sets of official robes, reflecting a continuing
division of responsibilities between the two posts. The vice-chancellor's
robes, therefore, should not be worn in the presence of the chancellor but
should only be worn when deputizing for the chancellor.

### India[edit]

In India, most central and state level universities have a titular head called
chancellor who is either an eminent person appointed by the Government of
India (in central universities) or provincial governor (in state
universities). The de facto head of a university is the vice-chancellor, the
highest paid official of the university. Next in command are more than one
pro-vice-chancellor in charge of academic as well as administrative and
financial affairs. In deemed universities and institutes of national
importance, the head of the institution is either called director general or
director, the latter designation being more commonly used in academic terms in
the subcontinent.

### Bangladesh[edit]

The President of Bangladesh is the titular chancellor of all universities in
Bangladesh, public or private. The vice chancellor is the executive head, and
his deputy, the pro-vice chancellor holds a full-time administrative office.

### Sri Lanka[edit]

In Sri Lanka, all the government universities are administered by the vice-
chancellor.

### Sudan[edit]

In Sudan, universities are administered by the vice-chancellor .

### Kenya[edit]

In Kenya, Chancellors are titular heads of public universities, either
appointed by the head of state (president) directly, or, in newly introduced
legislation, at the recommendation of senate and alumni of the university. The
day-to-day running of universities is the responsibility of the vice-
chancellors. "Rector" and "president" are not commonly used terms in
university administration.

### Nigeria[edit]

In Nigeria, chancellors are ceremonial heads of public universities (mostly
traditional monarchs), appointed by the head of state (president), governor of
a state (in the case of state-owned universities) or assumed by the owner of a
private university. The day-to-day running of universities is the
responsibility of the vice-chancellors. "Rector" and "president" are not
commonly used terms in university administration.

### Ireland[edit]

In Ireland, day-to-day operations of the universities are under the
directorship of a president (a provost in the case of Trinity College Dublin).
However, the president of each constituent university of the National
University of Ireland also has the title of pro-vice-chancellor of the NUI.

### Philippines[edit]

In the Philippines, University of Santo Tomas the day-to-day head of the
university, as mandated by his duty as the Prior Provincial of the Philippine
Dominican Province, the Dominican province that has majority control over the
university.

As said earlier, the vice-chancellor or the "grand vice-chancellor of the
University of Santo Tomas" is only the deputy to the chancellor of the
university, but the chancellor is usually a prominent public figure who is not
always in the country (e.g., the chancellor of University of Santo Tomas is
the current Master of the Order of Preachers, the current being Very Rev. Fr.
Bruno Cadoré, OP, while the rector acts as the day-to-day chief executive).
The current vice chancellor of UST is the Prior Provincial of the Philippine
Dominican Province, Very Rev. Fr. Napoleon Sipalay, OP. The current rector of
the university is Rev. Fr. Herminio V. Dagohoy, OP.

In the University of the Philippines, the chancellor assigns different vice-
chancellors to handle different aspects of running the university. There is
one for instruction, administration, and community affairs, among others.

### Sweden[edit]

In Sweden, the rektor (rector) is the head of a Swedish university, but the
word _vice-chancellor_ ( _vicekansler_ ) is often used as the English
translation of rektor. The _vice-chancellor_ ( _vicekansler_ ) is also an
honorary title given to the _rectores magnifici_ at the universities of Lund
and Uppsala.

###  United States[edit]

In the United States, a vice-chancellor is an assistant to a chancellor, who
is generally the (actual, not merely ceremonial) head of one campus of a large
university which has several campuses. The head of the entire university is
the president (the equivalent of a Commonwealth vice-chancellor), the
chancellor is in charge of one campus, and a vice-chancellor is one of the
chief assistants. Some systems, such as the California State University,
Pennsylvania State System of Higher Education, and University of Mississippi
invert this ranking so that the chancellor is the head of the entire
university.

At the University of the South, the vice-chancellor is the administrative head
of the university (as well as mayor of the town of Sewanee). The chancellor is
a bishop of one of the 28 southeastern Episcopal dioceses that own the
university and is elected by the members of the Board of Trustees. The
chancellor neither resides at the university nor holds administrative power;
the office of chancellor is a ceremonial one.

## Principal[edit]

The principal is the chief executive and the chief academic officer of a
university or college in certain parts of the Commonwealth.

A "director" is the chief executive officer of a university or other
educational institution. Equivalent names in different countries are vice-
chancellor (many Commonwealth countries), chancellor (United States),
principal (Scotland and Canada), and university president.

### United Kingdom[edit]

See also: Ancient university governance in Scotland

In Scotland, the principal is appointed by the university court or governing
body of the university and will be chairman or president of the body of
academics. In the case of the ancient universities of Scotland, the principal
is president of the academic senate. The principal also holds the title of
vice-chancellor, but their powers with regard to this position extend only to
the awarding of degrees, as both the vice-chancellor and chancellor are
titular posts.

### Canada[edit]

Queen's University and McGill University in Canada have principals instead of
presidents as a result of their Scottish origins. In addition, the Royal
Military College of Canada also has a principal.

### South Africa[edit]

Further information: List of South African university chancellors and vice-
chancellors, List of Vice-Chancellors and Chancellors of the University of
Pretoria, Chancellor of the University of Cape Town, and Vice-Chancellor of
the University of Cape Town

In South Africa, the Higher Education Act 101 of 1997 defines the principal as
"the chief executive and accounting officer of a public higher education
institution."[11] The definition allows for the alternative nomenclatures of
vice-chancellor and a rector, and these terms are in widespread use (the term
vice-chancellor is more common in English-medium universities, whilst the term
rector tends to be used in Afrikaans-medium universities). The exact name in a
particular university will be defined by the Institutional Statute. The same
act defines the chancellor as the titular head of an institution.

## See also[edit]

  * Pro-Chancellor
  * Academic administration
  * Lists of university leaders
    * Administrators: trustee, president, vice president, university principal, dean, provost, rector
    * Other: college, faculty, professor

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Chief executive's HKU role should only be honorary, says panel". _South China Morning Post_. Retrieved  15 September 2017. 
  2. **^** "Two more private universities approved for Pune". _The Times of India_. Retrieved  3 July 2014. 
  3. **^** "The Private University Act, 1992". Südasien-Institut. Archived from the original on 17 December 2007. Retrieved  6 April 2011. 
  4. **^** "Ministry of Education – Law/Act". Ministry of Education, Government of the People's Republic of Bangladesh. Retrieved  6 April 2011. 
  5. **^** _Code de l'éducation_ , art. L 712-2 (in French)
  6. **^** [1]
  7. **^** Smith, Kate (2017-12-11). "College Presidents Making $1 Million Rise With Tuition and Student Debt". _Bloomberg News_. Retrieved  2017-12-13. 
  8. **^** "Vice-Chancellors at Australia's universities". _Universities Australia_. Archived from the original on 5 August 2012. Retrieved  7 November 2011. 
  9. **^** Toncich, Dario (2008). _Study and Learning in the Australian University System_. Dario Toncich. pp.  60–70. ISBN 1-876665-02-5. 
  10. **^** McMillan, David (1968). _Australian universities: a descriptive sketch_. Taylor  & Francis. p. 33. 
  11. **^** "Higher Education Act 101 of 1997". 4 July 2010. Retrieved  2010-07-04. 

Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Chancellor_(education)&oldid=815258712#University_president"

Categories:

  * Academic honours
  * Academic administrators
  * Education and training occupations
  * University governance
  * University and college presidents

Hidden categories:

  * Articles with French-language external links
  * Use dmy dates from February 2013
  * Articles needing additional references from June 2012
  * All articles needing additional references
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from April 2017

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * বাংলা
  * Cymraeg
  * Deutsch
  * Français
  * हिन्दी
  * עברית
  * Latina
  * മലയാളം
  * मराठी
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Русский
  * Simple English
  * Suomi
  * தமிழ்
  * తెలుగు
  * Yorùbá
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 13 December 2017, at 19:27.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[m.]: married
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887

