

# _Walking to the Sky_

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Walking to the Sky  
---  
Artist | Jonathan Borofsky  
Year | 2004 (2004)  
Type | Sculpture  
Location | Nasher Sculpture Center, Dallas, Texas  
  
_**Walking to the Sky**_ is a public sculpture by Jonathan Borofsky. The
original was installed at Rockefeller Center in the fall of 2004 before being
moved to the Nasher Sculpture Center in Dallas, Texas in 2005. A copy is
installed on the campus of Carnegie Mellon University in Pittsburgh,
Pennsylvania, United States. [1] Another copy is installed in front of the
Kiturami Homsys Co. building in Hwagok-dong, Gangseo-gu, Seoul, South
Korea.[2]

The seven-ton work depicts a little girl, a businesswoman, a young man, and
several others scaling a soaring 100-foot-tall stainless steel pole. Three
people are looking upward from the base of the pole, which points to the east
at a 75-degree angle.

The piece was inspired by a story that Borofsky's father used to tell him when
he was a child about a friendly giant who lived in the sky. In each tale,
father and son would travel up to the sky to talk to the giant about what
needed to be done for everyone back on earth. The artist says the sculpture is
"a celebration of the human potential for discovering who we are and where we
need to go."[3]

## Carnegie Mellon University replica[edit]

Carnegie Mellon installed _Walking to the Sky_ in May 2006 on its campus in
front of Warner Hall just off Forbes Avenue. The sculpture was a gift from CMU
Trustee Jill Gansman Kraus (A'74) and her husband, Peter Kraus, of New York
City. The sculpture generated controversy among the student body for its
appearance, the choice of location, and the lack of campus involvement in
selecting and siting the piece. The campus newspaper described it as "an
eyesore" and "a huge phallus" while others have expressed displeasure at its
location as one of the first things seen of the campus from Forbes Avenue. Due
to apparent structural instability, the sculpture had to be replaced with a
more structurally stable version in October 2009.[4]

##  References[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Walking to the Sky**_.  
---|---  
  
  1. **^** Lowry, Patricia (March 15, 2006). "CMU crafts a compromise on artist's controversial sculpture". _Pittsburgh Post-Gazette_. Retrieved  October 14, 2009. 
  2. **^** "Official Seoul City Tourism Art Exhibition Calendar". Retrieved  October 14, 2009. [ _dead link_ ]
  3. **^** Garcia, Cathy Rose A. (October 31, 2009). "Walk to the Sky With Jonathan Borofsky". Retrieved October 14, 2009. 
  4. **^** Jones, Aliesha (September 28, 2009). "Walking to the Sky Art Excavated". Retrieved October 14, 2009. 

| _ThisPittsburgh-related article is a stub. You can help Wikipedia by
expanding it._

  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
---|---  
| _This sculpture article is astub. You can help Wikipedia by expanding it._

  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Walking_to_the_Sky&oldid=798571136"

Categories:

  * Outdoor sculptures in Texas
  * Outdoor sculptures in Pennsylvania
  * Carnegie Mellon University
  * Buildings and structures in Dallas
  * 2004 sculptures
  * Steel sculptures in Texas
  * Sculptures by Jonathan Borofsky
  * Steel sculptures in Pennsylvania
  * Steel sculptures in South Korea
  * Outdoor sculptures in South Korea
  * Pittsburgh stubs
  * Sculpture stubs

Hidden categories:

  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from October 2010
  * Texas articles missing geocoordinate data
  * All articles needing coordinates
  * All stub articles

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 2 September 2017, at 17:41.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

