

# _The Wall Street Journal_

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

  (Redirected from Wall Street Journal)

Jump to: navigation, search

"WSJ" redirects here. For other uses, see WSJ (disambiguation).

The Wall Street Journal  
---  
  
Cover of _The Wall Street Journal_ (March 23, 2016), with the headline story
reporting on the 2016 Brussels bombings.  
  
Type | Daily newspaper  
Format | Broadsheet  
Owner(s) | News Corp (via Dow Jones & Company)  
Editor-in-chief | Gerard Baker  
Opinion editor | Paul A. Gigot  
Founded | July 8, 1889; 128 years ago (1889-07-08)  
Language | English  
Headquarters | 1211 Avenue of the Americas, New York City, New York, U.S.  
Country | United States  
Circulation | 2,277,000 Daily[1] (as of June 2017)  
ISSN | 0099-9660  
OCLC number | 781541372  
Website | www.wsj.com  
  
  * Media of the United States
  * List of newspapers

  
  
_**The Wall Street Journal**_ is an American business-focused, English-
language international daily newspaper based in New York City. The _Journal_ ,
along with its Asian and European editions, is published six days a week by
Dow Jones & Company, a division of News Corp. The newspaper is published in
the broadsheet format and online.

_The Wall Street Journal_ is the largest newspaper in the United States by
circulation. According to News Corp, in their June 2017 10-K Filing with the
SEC, the _Journal_ had a circulation of about 2.277  million copies (including
nearly 1,270,000 digital subscriptions) as of June 2017,[2] compared with _USA
Today_ 's 1.7 million.

The newspaper has won 40 Pulitzer Prizes through 2017[3] and derives its name
from Wall Street in the heart of the Financial District of Lower Manhattan.
The _Journal_ has been printed continuously since its inception on July 8,
1889, by Charles Dow, Edward Jones, and Charles Bergstresser.

The Journal also publishes the luxury news and lifestyle magazine _WSJ._

The Journal launched an online version in 1996, which has been accessible only
to subscribers since it launched.

## Contents

  * 1 History
    * 1.1 Beginnings
    * 1.2 Internet expansion
    * 1.3 Design changes
    * 1.4 News Corporation and News Corp
  * 2 Features
  * 3 _WSJ._
  * 4 Operations
  * 5 Recent milestones
  * 6 Editorial page and political stance
    * 6.1 Economic views
    * 6.2 Political stance
    * 6.3 Bias in news pages
  * 7 Notable stories and Pulitzer Prizes
    * 7.1 1987: RJR Nabisco buyout
    * 7.2 1988: Insider trading
    * 7.3 1997: AIDS treatment
    * 7.4 2000: Enron
    * 7.5 2001: 9/11
    * 7.6 2007: Stock option scandal
    * 7.7 2008: Bear Stearns fall
    * 7.8 2010: McDonald's health care
    * 7.9 2015: Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak and 1MDB
    * 7.10 2015–present: Theranos investigation
  * 8 See also
  * 9 References
  * 10 Further reading
  * 11 External links

## History[edit]

### Beginnings[edit]

Front page of the first issue of _The Wall Street Journal_ , July 8, 1889

The first products of Dow Jones & Company, the publisher of the _Journal_ ,
were brief news bulletins, nick-named "flimsies", hand-delivered throughout
the day to traders at the stock exchange in the early 1880s. They were later
aggregated in a printed daily summary called the _Customers' Afternoon
Letter_. Reporters Charles Dow, Edward Jones, and Charles Bergstresser
converted this into _The Wall Street Journal_ , which was published for the
first time on July 8, 1889, and began delivery of the Dow Jones News Service
via telegraph.[4] In 1896, The "Dow Jones Industrial Average" was officially
launched. It was the first of several indices of stock and bond prices on the
New York Stock Exchange. In 1899, the _Journal'_ s Review & Outlook column,
which still runs today, appeared for the first time, initially written by
Charles Dow.

Journalist Clarence Barron purchased control of the company for US$130,000 in
1902; circulation was then around 7,000 but climbed to 50,000 by the end of
the 1920s. Barron and his predecessors were credited with creating an
atmosphere of fearless, independent financial reporting—a novelty in the early
days of business journalism. In 1921, Barron's, America's premier financial
weekly, was founded.[5] Barron died in 1928, a year before Black Tuesday, the
stock market crash that greatly affected the Great Depression in the United
States. Barron's descendants, the Bancroft family, would continue to control
the company until 2007.[5]

The _Journal_ took its modern shape and prominence in the 1940s, a time of
industrial expansion for the United States and its financial institutions in
New York. Bernard Kilgore was named managing editor of the paper in 1941, and
company CEO in 1945, eventually compiling a 25-year career as the head of the
_Journal_. Kilgore was the architect of the paper's iconic front-page design,
with its "What's News" digest, and its national distribution strategy, which
brought the paper's circulation from 33,000 in 1941 to 1.1  million at the
time of Kilgore's death in 1967. Under Kilgore, in 1947, that the paper won
its first Pulitzer Prize, for William Henry Grimes's editorials.[5]

In 1967, Dow Jones Newswires began a major expansion outside of the United
States that ultimately put journalists in every major financial center in
Europe, Asia, Latin America, Australia, and Africa. In 1970, Dow Jones bought
the Ottaway newspaper chain, which at the time comprised nine dailies and
three Sunday newspapers. Later, the name was changed to "Dow Jones Local Media
Group".[6]

1971 to 1997 brought about a series of launches, acquisitions, and joint
ventures, including "Factiva", _The Wall Street Journal Asia_ , _The Wall
Street Journal Europe_ , the WSJ.com website, Dow Jones Indexes, MarketWatch,
and "WSJ Weekend Edition". In 2007 News Corp. acquired Dow Jones. _WSJ._ , a
luxury lifestyle magazine, was launched in 2008.[7]

### Internet expansion[edit]

Further information: OpinionJournal.com

A complement to the print newspaper, _The Wall Street Journal Online_ , was
launched in 1996 and has allowed access only by subscription from the
beginning.[8] In 2003, Dow Jones began to integrate reporting of the
_Journal'_ s print and online subscribers together in Audit Bureau of
Circulations statements.[9] In 2007, it was commonly believed to be the
largest paid-subscription news site on the Web, with 980,000 paid
subscribers.[5] Since then, online subscribership has fallen, due in part to
rising subscription costs, and was reported at 400,000 in March 2010.[10] In
May 2008, an annual subscription to the online edition of _The Wall Street
Journal_ cost $119 for those who do not have subscriptions to the print
edition. By June 2013, the monthly cost for a subscription to the online
edition was $22.99, or $275.88 annually, excluding introductory offers.[11]

Vladimir Putin with _Journal_ correspondent Karen Elliott House in 2002

On November 30, 2004, Oasys Mobile and _The Wall Street Journal_ released an
app that would allow users to access content from the _Wall Street Journal
Online_ via their mobile phone.[12]

Many of _The Wall Street Journal_ news stories are available through free
online newspapers that subscribe to the Dow Jones syndicate. Pulitzer
Prize–winning stories from 1995 are available free on the Pulitzer[13] web
site.

In September 2005, the _Journal_ launched a weekend edition, delivered to all
subscribers, which marked a return to Saturday publication after a lapse of
some 50 years. The move was designed in part to attract more consumer
advertising.[5]

In 2005, the _Journal_ reported a readership profile of about 60 percent top
management, an average income of $191,000, an average household net worth of
$2.1  million, and an average age of 55.[14]

In 2007, the _Journal_ launched a worldwide expansion of its website to
include major foreign-language editions. The paper had also shown an interest
in buying the rival _Financial Times_.[15]

###  Design changes[edit]

The nameplate is unique in having a period at the end.[16]

On September 5, 2006, the _Journal_ included advertising on its front page for
the first time. This followed the introduction of front-page advertising on
the European and Asian editions in late 2005.[17]

After presenting nearly identical front-page layouts for half a century—always
six columns, with the day's top stories in the first and sixth columns,
"What's News" digest in the second and third, the "A-hed" feature story in the
fourth (with 'hed' being jargon for headline) and themed weekly reports in the
fifth column[18] – the paper in 2007 decreased its broadsheet width from 15 to
12 inches while keeping the length at 22​3⁄4 inches, to save newsprint costs.
News design consultant Mario Garcia collaborated on the changes. Dow Jones
said it would save US$18 million a year in newsprint costs across all _The
Wall Street Journal_ papers.[19] This move eliminated one column of print,
pushing the "A-hed" out of its traditional location (though the paper now
usually includes a quirky feature story on the right side of the front page,
sandwiched among the lead stories).

The paper still uses ink dot drawings called hedcuts, introduced in 1979 and
originally created by Kevin Sprouls,[20] in addition to photographs, a method
of illustration considered a consistent visual signature of the paper. The
_Journal_ still heavily employs the use of caricatures, notably those of Ken
Fallin, such as when Peggy Noonan memorialized then-recently deceased newsman
Tim Russert.[21][22] The use of color photographs and graphics has become
increasingly common in recent years with the addition of more "lifestyle"
sections.

The daily was awarded by the Society for News Design World's Best Designed
Newspaper award for 1994 and 1997.[23]

### News Corporation and News Corp[edit]

On May 2, 2007, News Corporation made an unsolicited takeover bid for Dow
Jones, offering US$60 a share for stock that had been selling for US$33 a
share. The Bancroft family, which controlled more than 60% of the voting
stock, at first rejected the offer, but later reconsidered its position.[24]

Three months later, on August 1, 2007, News Corporation and Dow Jones entered
into a definitive merger agreement.[25] The US$5 billion sale added _The Wall
Street Journal_ to Rupert Murdoch's news empire, which already included Fox
News Channel, financial network unit and London's _The Times_ , and locally
within New York, the _New York Post_ , along with Fox flagship station WNYW
(Channel 5) and MyNetworkTV flagship WWOR (Channel 9).[26]

On December 13, 2007, shareholders representing more than 60 percent of Dow
Jones's voting stock approved the company's acquisition by News
Corporation.[27]

In an editorial page column, publisher L. Gordon Crovitz said the Bancrofts
and News Corporation had agreed that the _Journal_ 's news and opinion
sections would preserve their editorial independence from their new corporate
parent:[28]

A special committee was established to oversee the paper's editorial
integrity. When the managing editor Marcus Brauchli resigned on April 22,
2008, the committee said that News Corporation had violated its agreement by
not notifying the committee earlier. However, Brauchli said he believed that
new owners should appoint their own editor.[29]

A 2007 _Journal_ article quoted charges that Murdoch had made and broken
similar promises in the past. One large shareholder commented that Murdoch has
long "expressed his personal, political and business biases through his
newspapers and television stations". Former _Times_ assistant editor Fred
Emery remembers an incident when "Mr. Murdoch called him into his office in
March 1982 and said he was considering firing Times editor Harold Evans. Mr.
Emery says he reminded Mr. Murdoch of his promise that editors couldn't be
fired without the independent directors' approval. 'God, you don't take all
that seriously, do you?' Mr. Murdoch answered, according to Mr. Emery."
Murdoch eventually forced out Evans.[30]

In 2011, _The Guardian_ found evidence that the _Journal_ had artificially
inflated its European sales numbers, by paying Executive Learning Partnership
for purchasing 16% of European sales. These inflated sales numbers then
enabled the _Journal_ to charge similarly inflated advertising rates, as the
advertisers would think that they reached more readers than they actually did.
In addition, the _Journal_ agreed to run "articles" featuring Executive
Learning Partnership, presented as news, but effectively advertising.[31] The
case came to light after a Belgian _Wall Street Journal_ employee, Gert Van
Mol, informed Dow Jones CEO Les Hinton about the questionable practice.[32] As
a result, the then _Wall Street Journal Europe_ CEO and Publisher Andrew
Langhoff was fired after it was found out he personally pressured journalists
into covering one of the newspaper's business partners involved in the
issue.[33][34] Since September 2011 all the online articles that resulted from
the ethical wrongdoing carry a Wall Street Journal disclaimer informing the
readers about the circumstances in which they were created.

The _Journal_ , along with its parent Dow Jones & Company, was among the
businesses News Corporation spun off in 2013 as the new News Corp. In November
2016, in an effort to cut costs, the _Journal_ 's editor-in-chief, Gerard
Baker, announced that layoffs and consolidation to its sections would take
place. In the memo, the new format for the newspaper will have a "Business &
Finance" section that will combine its current "Business & Tech" and "Money &
Investing" sections. It will also include a new "Life & Arts" section that
will combine its current "Personal Journal" and "Arena" sections. In addition,
the current "Greater New York" coverage will be reduced and will move into the
main section of paper.[35]

## Features[edit]

Since 1980, the _Journal_ has been published in multiple sections. At one
time, The _Journal_ 's page count averaged as much as 96 pages an issue,[
_citation needed_ ] but with the industry-wide decline in advertising, the
Journal in 2009–10 more typically published about 50 to 60 pages per issue.
Regularly scheduled sections are:

  * Section One – every day; corporate news, as well as political and economic reporting and the opinion pages
  * Marketplace – Monday through Friday; coverage of health, technology, media, and marketing industries (the second section was launched June 23, 1980)
  * Money and Investing – every day; covers and analyzes international financial markets (the third section was launched October 3, 1988)
  * Personal Journal – published Tuesday through Thursday; covers personal investments, careers and cultural pursuits (the section was introduced April 9, 2002)
  * Off Duty – published Saturdays in WSJ Weekend; focuses on fashion, food, design, travel and gear/tech. The section was launched September 25, 2010.
  * Review – published Saturdays in WSJ Weekend; focuses on essays, commentary, reviews and ideas. The section was launched September 25, 2010.
  * Mansion – published Fridays; focuses on high-end real estate. The section was launched October 5, 2012.
  * WSJ Magazine – Launched in 2008 as a quarterly, this luxury magazine supplement distributed within the U.S., European and Asian editions of The Wall Street Journal grew to 12 issues per year in 2014.

In addition, several columnists contribute regular features to the _Journal_
opinion page and OpinionJournal.com:

  * Weekdays – Best of the Web Today[36] by James Freeman
  * Monday – Americas by Mary O'Grady
  * Wednesday – Business World by Holman W. Jenkins Jr
  * Thursday – Wonder Land by Daniel Henninger
  * Friday – Potomac Watch by Kimberley Strassel
  * Weekend Edition – Rule of Law, The Weekend Interview (variety of authors), Declarations by Peggy Noonan

In addition to these regular opinion pieces, on Fridays the Journal publishes
a religion-themed op-ed, titled "Houses of Worship", written by a different
author each week. Authors range from the Dali Lama to cardinals.

## _WSJ._ [edit]

Main article: WSJ.

_WSJ._ is _The Wall Street Journal_ 's luxury lifestyle magazine. Its coverage
spans art, fashion, entertainment, design, food, architecture, travel and
more. Kristina O'Neill is Editor in Chief and Anthony Cenname is Publisher.

Launched as a quarterly in 2008, the magazine grew to 12 issues a year for
2014.[37] The magazine is distributed within the U.S. Weekend Edition of _The
Wall Street Journal_ newspaper (average paid print circulation is +2.2
million*), the European and Asian editions, and is available on WSJ.com. Each
issue is also available throughout the month in _The Wall Street Journal'_ s
iPad app.

Penélope Cruz, Carmelo Anthony, Woody Allen, Scarlett Johansson, Emilia
Clarke, Daft Punk, and Gisele Bündchen have all been featured on the cover.

In 2012, the magazine launched its signature platform, The Innovator Awards.
An extension of the November Innovators issue, the awards ceremony, held in
New York City at Museum of Modern Art, honors visionaries across the fields of
design, fashion, architecture, humanitarianism, art and technology. The 2013
winners were: Alice Waters (Humanitarianism); Daft Punk (Entertainment); David
Adjaye (Architecture); Do Ho Su (Art); Nick D'Aloisio (Technology); Pat
McGrath (Fashion); Thomas Woltz (Design).

In 2013, _Adweek_ awarded _WSJ._[38] "Hottest Lifestyle Magazine of the Year"
for its annual Hot List.

  * U.S. Circulation: Each issue of _WSJ._ is inserted into the weekend edition of _The Wall Street Journal_ , whose average paid circulation for the three months ending September 30, 2013 was 2,261,772 as reported to the Alliance for Audited Media (AAM).

## Operations[edit]

As of 2012, _The Wall Street Journal_ had a global news staff of around 2,000
journalists in 85 news bureaus across 51 countries.[39][40] As of 2012 it had
26 printing plants.[39]

##  Recent milestones[edit]

|

This section **needs additional citations forverification**.  Please help
improve this article by adding citations to reliable sources. Unsourced
material may be challenged and removed. _(July 2017)_ _(Learn how and when to
remove this template message)_  
  
---|---  
  
  * WSJ Live became available on mobile devices, including iPad, in September 2011.[41]
  * _WSJ Weekend_ , the weekend newspaper, expanded September 2010, with two new sections: "Off Duty" and "Review".
  * "Greater New York", a stand-alone, full color section dedicated to the New York metro area, launched April 2010.[42][43]
  * _The Wall Street Journal'_ s San Francisco Bay Area Edition, which focuses on local news and events, launched on November 5, 2009, appearing locally each Thursday in the print Journal and every day on online at WSJ.com/SF.
  * _WSJ Weekend_ , formerly called _Saturday's Weekend Edition_ : September 2005.
  * Launch of _Today's Journal_ , which included both the addition of _Personal Journal_ and color capacity to the _Journal_ : April 2002.
  * _Friday Journal_ , formerly called _First Weekend Journal_ : March 20, 1998.
  * WSJ.com launched in April 1996.[44]
  * First three-section _Journal_ : October 1988.
  * First two-section _Journal_ : June 1980.

## Editorial page and political stance[edit]

Further information: The Wall Street Journal Editorial Board

The _Journal_ won its first two Pulitzer Prizes for editorial writing in 1947
and 1953. Subsequent Pulitzer Prizes have been awarded for editorial writing
to Robert L. Bartley in 1980 and Joseph Rago in 2011; for criticism to Manuela
Hoelterhoff in 1983 and Joe Morgenstern in 2005; and for commentary to Vermont
Royster in 1984, Paul Gigot in 2000, Dorothy Rabinowitz in 2001, Bret Stephens
in 2013, and Peggy Noonan in 2017.

Two summaries published in 1995 by the progressive blog Fairness and Accuracy
in Reporting, and in 1996 by the _Columbia Journalism Review_[45] criticized
the _Journal_ 's editorial page for inaccuracy during the 1980s and 1990s.

The Journal describes the history of its editorials:

> They are united by the mantra "free markets and free people", the
principles, if you will, marked in the watershed year of 1776 by Thomas
Jefferson's Declaration of Independence and Adam Smith's _Wealth of Nations_.
So over the past century and into the next, the _Journal_ stands for free
trade and sound money; against confiscatory taxation and the ukases of kings
and other collectivists; and for individual autonomy against dictators,
bullies and even the tempers of momentary majorities. If these principles
sound unexceptionable in theory, applying them to current issues is often
unfashionable and controversial. [ _citation needed_ ]

Its historical position was much the same. As former editor William H. Grimes
wrote in 1951:

> On our editorial page we make no pretense of walking down the middle of the
road. Our comments and interpretations are made from a definite point of view.
We believe in the individual, in his wisdom and his decency. We oppose all
infringements on individual rights, whether they stem from attempts at private
monopoly, labor union monopoly or from an overgrowing government. People will
say we are conservative or even reactionary. We are not much interested in
labels but if we were to choose one, we would say we are radical. Just as
radical as the Christian doctrine.[46]

Every Thanksgiving the editorial page prints two famous articles that have
appeared there since 1961. The first is titled _The Desolate Wilderness_ , and
describes what the Pilgrims saw when they arrived at the Plymouth Colony. The
second is titled _And the Fair Land_ , and describes the bounty of America. It
was written by a former editor, Vermont C. Royster, whose Christmas article
_In Hoc Anno Domini_ , has appeared every December 25 since 1949.

### Economic views[edit]

During the Reagan administration, the newspaper's editorial page was
particularly influential as the leading voice for supply-side economics. Under
the editorship of Robert Bartley, it expounded at length on economic concepts
such as the Laffer curve, and how a decrease in certain marginal tax rates and
the capital gains tax could allegedly increase overall tax revenue by
generating more economic activity.

In the economic argument of exchange rate regimes (one of the most divisive
issues among economists), the _Journal_ has a tendency to support fixed
exchange rates over floating exchange rates. For example, the _Journal_ was a
major supporter of the Chinese yuan's peg to the dollar, and strongly
disagreed with American politicians who criticized the Chinese government
about the peg. It opposed China's move to let the yuan gradually float,
arguing that the fixed rate benefited both the United States and China.

The _Journal_ 's views compare with those of the British publication _The
Economist_ , with its emphasis on free markets[ _citation needed_ ]. However,
the _Journal_ demonstrates important distinctions from European business
newspapers, most particularly in regard to the relative significance of, and
causes of, the American budget deficit. (The _Journal_ generally points to the
lack of foreign growth, while business journals in Europe and Asia blame the
low savings rate and concordant high borrowing rate in the United States).

###  Political stance[edit]

Mark Rutte prime minister of the Netherlands being interviewed by the Wall
Street Journal

The _Journal_ 's editorial pages and columns, run separately from the news
pages, are highly influential in American conservative circles. As editors of
the editorial page, Vermont C. Royster (served 1958–1971) and Robert L.
Bartley (served 1972–2000) were especially influential in providing a
conservative interpretation of the news on a daily basis.[47] Some of the
_Journal'_ s former reporters claim that the paper has adopted a more
conservative tone since Rupert Murdoch's purchase.[48]

The editorial board has long argued for a pro-business immigration policy. In
a July 3, 1984 editorial, the board wrote: "If Washington still wants to 'do
something' about immigration, we propose a five-word constitutional amendment:
There shall be open borders." This stand on immigration reform places the
_Journal_ in contrast to most conservative activists, politicians, and media
publications for example _National Review_ and _The Washington Times_ , who
favor heightened restrictions on immigration.[49]

The _Journal_ 's editorial page has been seen as critical of many aspects of
Barack Obama's presidency. In particular, it has been a prominent critic of
the Affordable Care Act legislation passed in 2010 and has featured many
opinion columns attacking various aspects of the bill.[50] The _Journal_ 's
editorial page has also criticized the Obama administration's energy policies
and foreign policy.[51][52][53]

The editorial board of _The Wall Street Journal_ tends to reject widely held
views on climate change—namely that it poses a major threat to human
existence, is largely caused by fossil fuel emissions, and can be prevented
through public policy. _The Journal_ is regarded as a forum for climate change
skeptics,[54][55] publishing articles by scientists skeptical of the consensus
position on climate change in its op-ed section, including several essays by
Richard Lindzen of MIT.[56][57][58] Similarly, the _Journal_ has been accused
of refusing to publish opinions of scientists which present the mainstream
view on climate change.[59] According to a 2016 analysis, 14% of the guest
editorials presented the results of "mainstream climate science", while the
majority did not. Also, none of 201 editorials published in the WSJ since 1997
concede that the burning of fossil fuels was causing climate change.[60] A
2015 study found _The Wall Street Journal_ was the newspaper that was least
likely to present negative effects of global warming among several newspapers.
It was also the most likely to present negative economic framing when
discussing climate change mitigation policies,[61] tending to taking the
stance that the cost of such policies generally outweighs their benefit.

On October 25, 2017, the editorial board called for Special Counsel Robert
Mueller to resign from the investigation into Russian interference in the 2016
United States elections and accused Hillary Clinton's 2016 presidential
campaign of colluding with Russia.[62]

### Bias in news pages[edit]

The _Journal_ 's editors stress the independence and impartiality of their
reporters.[28]

In a 2004 study, Tim Groseclose and Jeff Milyo argue the _Journal_ 's news
pages have a pro-liberal bias because they more often quote liberal think
tanks. They calculated the ideological attitude of news reports in 20 media
outlets by counting the frequency they cited particular think tanks and
comparing that to the frequency that legislators cited the same think tanks.
They found that the news reporting of _The Journal_ was the most liberal (more
liberal than NPR or _The New York Times_ ). The study did not factor in
editorials.[63] Mark Liberman criticized the model used to calculate bias in
the study and argued that the model unequally affected liberals and
conservatives and that "..the model starts with a very peculiar assumption
about the relationship between political opinion and the choice of authorities
to cite." [The authors assume that] "think tank ideology [...] only matters to
liberals."[64]

The company's planned and eventual acquisition by News Corp in 2007 led to
significant media criticism and discussion[65] about whether the news pages
would exhibit a rightward slant under Rupert Murdoch. An August 1 editorial
responded to the questions by asserting that Murdoch intended to "maintain the
values and integrity of the _Journal_."[66]

##  Notable stories and Pulitzer Prizes[edit]

The _Journal_ has won more than 30 Pulitzer Prizes in its history. Staff
journalists who led some of the newspaper's best-known coverage teams have
later published books that summarized and extended their reporting.

###  1987: RJR Nabisco buyout[edit]

In 1987, a bidding war ensued between several financial firms for tobacco and
food giant RJR Nabisco. Bryan Burrough and John Helyar documented the events
in more than two dozen _Journal_ articles. Burrough and Helyar later used
these articles as the basis of a bestselling book, _Barbarians at the Gate:
The Fall of RJR Nabisco_ , which was turned into a film for HBO.[67]

### 1988: Insider trading[edit]

In the 1980s, then _Journal_ reporter James B. Stewart brought national
attention to the illegal practice of insider trading. He was awarded the
Pulitzer Prize in explanatory journalism in 1988, which he shared with Daniel
Hertzberg,[68] who went on to serve as the paper's senior deputy managing
editor before resigning in 2009. Stewart expanded on this theme in his book,
_Den of Thieves_.

###  1997: AIDS treatment[edit]

David Sanford, a Page One features editor who was infected with HIV in 1982 in
a bathhouse, wrote a front-page personal account of how, with the assistance
of improved treatments for HIV, he went from planning his death to planning
his retirement.[69] He and six other reporters wrote about the new treatments,
political and economic issues, and won the 1997 Pulitzer Prize for National
Reporting about AIDS.[70]

### 2000: Enron[edit]

Jonathan Weil, a reporter at the Dallas bureau of _The Wall Street Journal_ ,
is credited with first breaking the story of financial abuses at Enron in
September 2000.[71] Rebecca Smith and John R. Emshwiller reported on the story
regularly,[72] and wrote a book, _24 Days_.

###  2001: 9/11[edit]

The _Journal_ claims to have sent the first news report, on the Dow Jones
wire, of a plane crashing into the World Trade Center on September 11,
2001.[73] Its headquarters, at One World Financial Center, was severely
damaged by the collapse of the World Trade Center just across the street.[74]
Top editors worried that they might miss publishing the first issue for the
first time in the paper's 112-year history. They relocated to a makeshift
office at an editor's home, while sending most of the staff to Dow Jones's
South Brunswick, N.J., corporate campus, where the paper had established
emergency editorial facilities soon after the 1993 World Trade Center bombing.
The paper was on the stands the next day, albeit in scaled-down form. Perhaps
the most compelling story in that day's edition was a first-hand account of
the Twin Towers' collapse written by then-Foreign Editor (and current
Washington bureau chief) John Bussey,[74] who holed up in a ninth-floor
Journal office, literally in the shadow of the towers, from where he phoned in
live reports to CNBC as the towers burned. He narrowly escaped serious injury
when the first tower collapsed, shattering all the windows in the _Journal_ 's
offices and filling them with dust and debris. The _Journal_ won a 2002
Pulitzer Prize in Breaking News Reporting for that day's stories.[75]

The _Journal_ subsequently conducted a worldwide investigation of the causes
and significance of 9/11, using contacts it had developed while covering
business in the Arab world. In Kabul, Afghanistan, a reporter from _The Wall
Street Journal_ bought a pair of looted computers that Al Qaeda leaders had
used to plan assassinations, chemical and biological attacks, and mundane
daily activities. The encrypted files were decrypted and translated.[76] It
was during this coverage that terrorists kidnapped and killed _Journal_
reporter Daniel Pearl.

###  2007: Stock option scandal[edit]

In 2007, the paper won the Pulitzer Prize for Public Service, with its iconic
Gold Medal,[77] for exposing companies that illegally backdate stock options
they awarded executives to increase their value.

### 2008: Bear Stearns fall[edit]

Kate Kelly wrote a three-part series that detailed events that led to the
collapse of Bear Stearns.

### 2010: McDonald's health care[edit]

A report[78] published on September 30, 2010 detailing allegations McDonald's
had plans to drop health coverage for hourly employees drew criticism from
McDonald's as well as the Obama administration. The WSJ reported the plan to
drop coverage stemmed from new health care requirements under the Patient
Protection and Affordable Care Act. McDonald's called the report "speculative
and misleading", stating they had no plans to drop coverage.[79] The WSJ
report and subsequent rebuttal received coverage from several other media
outlets.[80][81][82]

### 2015: Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak and 1MDB[edit]

In 2015, a report[83] published by the _Journal_ alleged that up to US$700
million was wired from 1MDB, a Malaysian state investment company, to the
personal accounts of Malaysia Prime Minister Najib Razak in AmBank, the fifth
largest lender in Malaysia. Razak responded by threatening to sue the New
York-based newspaper.

The report prompted some governmental agencies in Malaysia to conduct an
investigation into the allegation.

### 2015–present: Theranos investigation[edit]

In 2015, a report written by the _Journal'_ s John Carreyrou alleged that
blood testing company Theranos' technology was faulty and founder Elizabeth
Holmes was misleading investors.[84][85][86] According to _Vanity Fair_ , "a
damning report published in _The Wall Street Journal_ had alleged that the
company was, in effect, a sham—that its vaunted core technology was actually
faulty and that Theranos administered almost all of its blood tests using
competitors' equipment."[85] The _Journal_ has subsequently published several
reports questioning Theranos' and Holmes' credibility.[87][88]

##  See also[edit]

  * New York City portal

  * _The Economic Times_
  * _Far Eastern Economic Review_
  * _Index of Economic Freedom_ – an annual report published by the _Journal_ together with The Heritage Foundation
  * _Journal Editorial Report_ , the weekly Fox News Channel series featuring WSJ editorial writers and board members
  * Lucky duckies
  * Media in New York City
  * _On the Money (2013 TV series)_ – the current title of a CNBC-produced program known as _The Wall Street Journal Report_ from 1970 until the CNBC/Dow Jones split in January 2013.
  * Other Wall Street Journal editions 
    * _The Wall Street Journal Asia_
    * _The Wall Street Journal Europe_
    * _The Wall Street Journal Special Editions_
    * Wall Street Journal Radio Network
  * Worth Bingham Prize

##  References[edit]

  1. **^** "Form 10K June, 2017". SEC. Retrieved  June 30, 2017. 
  2. **^** "Form 10-K". _www.sec.gov_. Retrieved  November 2, 2017. 
  3. **^** "The Pulitzer Prizes – What's New". pulitzer.org. Archived from the original on February 24, 2008. Retrieved  April 10, 2017. 
  4. **^** Dow Jones & Co. Inc., "Dow Jones History – The Late 1800s" Archived August 7, 2006, at the Wayback Machine., Retrieved July 25, 2013.
  5. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ _**c**_ _**d**_ _**e**_ Crossen, Cynthia. "It All Began in the Basement of a Candy Store Archived October 7, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.", _The Wall Street Journal_ (New York), p. B1, August 1, 2007.
  6. **^** "Dow Jones Local Media Group, Inc". _dowjoneslmg.com_.  
  7. **^** Edgecliffe-Johnson, Andrew (September 3, 2008). "WSJ magazine targets upscale market". _The Financial Times_. The Financial Times. Archived from the original on September 29, 2011.  
  8. **^** Stulberg, Ariel (May 23, 2017). "Testing news paywalls: Which are leaky, and which are airtight?". _Columbia Journalism Review_.  
  9. **^** "The Wall Street Journal Announces New Integrated Print and Online Sales and Marketing Initiatives". Press release. November 3, 2003.
  10. **^** Plambeck, Joseph (April 26, 2010). "Newspaper Circulation Falls Nearly 9%". _The New York Times_. Archived from the original on February 24, 2017.  
  11. **^** "Subscribing to the Wall Street Journal". _WSJ_. June 17, 2013. Archived from the original on November 14, 2013.  
  12. **^** "Oasys Mobile, Inc. News Release". Phx.corporate. Retrieved  June 5, 2011. 
  13. **^** "The Pulitzer Prizes – What's New". _pulitzer.org_. Archived from the original on March 9, 2008.  
  14. **^** Mitchell, Bill. "The Wall Street Journal Weekend Edition: Expectations, Surprises, Disappointments Archived August 16, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.". Poynter Online, September 21, 2005.
  15. **^** Wray, Richard (February 1, 2007). "How the word on Wall Street will spread around the world". _The Guardian_. UK. Archived from the original on February 3, 2007. Retrieved  February 3, 2007. 
  16. **^** "Punctuation Nerds Stopped by Obama Slogan, 'Forward. '". _The Wall Street Journal_. July 31, 2012. Archived from the original on October 30, 2012. Retrieved  October 30, 2012. 
  17. **^** "Wall Street Journal Introduces New Front Page Advertising Opportunity Archived August 14, 2006, at the Wayback Machine.". Press release, July 18, 2006. Retrieved August 19, 2006.
  18. **^** WSJ.com Guided Tour: Page One, accessed August 30, 2007.
  19. **^** Ahrens, Frank (October 12, 2005). " _Wall Street Journal_ To Narrow Its Pages". _The Washington Post_. Archived from the original on July 24, 2008. Retrieved  August 19, 2006. 
  20. **^** "Picturing Business in America" Archived November 5, 2005, at the Wayback Machine., Smithsonian National Portrait Gallery, Retrieved August 19, 2006.
  21. **^** Noonan, Peggy (June 20, 2008). "Tim Russert WSJ drawing". _WSJ_. Archived from the original on September 26, 2011. Retrieved  June 5, 2011. 
  22. **^** Caricaturist Captures the Corporate Market Archived September 24, 2009, at the Wayback Machine., Biz Bash Orlando, August 11, 2008.
  23. **^** "World's Best-Designed winners (2006)". _Society for News Design_. Archived from the original on August 18, 2017. Retrieved  October 8, 2013. 
  24. **^** For background and sequel, see: Ellison, Sarah, _War at the Wall Street Journal: Inside the Struggle To Control an American Business Empire_ , Houghton Mifflin Harcourt, 2010. ISBN 978-0-547-15243-1 (Also published as: _War at The Wall Street Journal: How Rupert Murdoch Bought an American Icon", Sydney, Text Publishing, 2010.)_
  25. **^** "Murdoch wins Control of Dow Jones". BBC. August 1, 2007. Archived from the original on August 5, 2007. Retrieved  August 1, 2007. 
  26. **^** "Murdoch clinches deal for publisher of Journal". MSNBC. August 1, 2007. Archived from the original on August 25, 2007. Retrieved  August 9, 2007. 
  27. **^** "News Corp Dow Jones Deal Done –". Portfolio.com. September 11, 2008. Archived from the original on May 11, 2011. Retrieved  June 5, 2011. 
  28. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ L. Gordon Crovitz, "A Report to Our Readers". _The Wall Street Journal_ (New York), page A14, August 1, 2007.
  29. **^** Steve Stecklow (April 30, 2008). "WSJ Editor's Resignation Is Criticized By Committee". _The Wall Street Journal_. Archived from the original on September 18, 2008. Retrieved  September 27, 2008. 
  30. **^** Steve Stecklow, Aaron O. Patrick, Martin Peers, and Andrew Higgins, "Calling the shots: In Murdoch's career, a hand in the news; his aggressive style can blur boundaries; 'Buck stops with me'" Archived December 13, 2007, at the Wayback Machine., _Wall Street Journal_ , June 5, 2007.
  31. **^** Davies, Nick (October 12, 2011). "Wall Street Journal circulation scam claims senior Murdoch executive". _The Guardian_. London. Archived from the original on November 14, 2013. Retrieved  October 13, 2011. 
  32. **^** Staff, THR (October 12, 2011). "News Corp Ignored Wall Street Journal Circulation Inflation (Report)". _The Hollywood Reporter_. US. Archived from the original on April 11, 2012. Retrieved  October 13, 2011. 
  33. **^** Meyers, Steve (October 13, 2011). "WSJ Europe publisher resigns after reports he 'personally pressured' journalists into covering paper's business partner". _Pointer_. US. Archived from the original on November 14, 2011. Retrieved  October 13, 2011. 
  34. **^** Sonne, Paul (October 12, 2011). "Publisher of WSJ Europe Resigns After Ethics Inquiry". _WSJ Online_. London. Archived from the original on October 13, 2011. Retrieved  October 13, 2011. 
  35. **^** "Wall Street Journal Begins Layoffs, Cuts Sections". _Forbes_. New York. November 2, 2016. Archived from the original on November 4, 2016. Retrieved  November 2, 2016. 
  36. **^** "Opinion, Editorials, Columns, Op-Ed, Letters to the Editor, Commentary - Wall Street Journal - Wsj.com". _opinionjournal.com_. Archived from the original on June 4, 2004.  
  37. **^** Chukky Nze. "WSJ. Media Kit". _WSJ. Media Kit_. Archived from the original on April 7, 2014.  
  38. **^** "Check Out All of the Winners in the Print Category From This Year's Hot List". _AdWeek_. Archived from the original on April 7, 2014.  
  39. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Dow Jones & Company (January 2012). "The Wall Street Journal" (PDF). _Dow Jones_. Dow Jones  & Company. Archived (PDF) from the original on February 27, 2013. Retrieved July 25, 2013. 
  40. **^** Dow Jones & Company (2011). "Worldwide Bureaus". _Dow Jones_. Dow Jones  & Company. Archived from the original on August 20, 2011. Retrieved August 25, 2011. 
  41. **^** "Wall Street Journal Adds to Live Video Programming". _The New York Times_. September 13, 2011. Archived from the original on August 4, 2014.  
  42. **^** "Wall Street Journal Launches NY Section, Aiming To Compete With NY Times". Archived from the original on August 15, 2017.  
  43. **^** "New York Main Page". Archived from the original on July 25, 2017. Retrieved  August 15, 2017. 
  44. **^** "WSJ.com". _online.wsj.com_. Archived from the original on December 19, 2016.  
  45. **^** Naureckas, Jim; Rendall, Steve (September–October 1995). "20 Reasons Not to Trust the Journal Editorial Page". _Extra!_. Fairness and Accuracy in Reporting. Archived from the original on November 7, 2008.  Lieberman, Trudy (July–August 1996). "Bartley's Believe It Or Not!". _Columbia Journalism Review_. Archived from the original on January 29, 2008.  
  46. **^** Grimes, William H. (January 2, 1951). "A Newspaper's Philosophy". _Wall Street Journal_. New York, NY.   seen in "A Newspaper's Philosophy". _Dow Jones_. Dow Jones  & Company. 2007. Archived from the original on July 16, 2007. Retrieved August 26, 2011. 
  47. **^** Richard Vetter, "Wall Street Journal," in Bruce Frohnen, ed. _American Conservatism_ (2006) pp 898–99
  48. **^** Carr, David (December 13, 2009). "The Media Equation: Under Murdoch, Tilting Rightward at The Journal". _The New York Times_. Archived from the original on February 23, 2017.  
  49. **^** Rutenberg, Jim (June 3, 2007). "The editorial page commonly publishes pieces by U.S. and world leaders in academia, business, government and politics". Nytimes.com. Archived from the original on May 13, 2011. Retrieved June 5, 2011. 
  50. **^** Wagner, Michael W., and Timothy P. Collins. "Does Ownership Matter? The case of Rupert Murdoch's purchase of the Wall Street Journal". _Journalism Practice_ (2014) 8#6 pp: 1–14. online
  51. **^** "Big Solar's Subsidy Bubble". August 30, 2015. Archived from the original on April 2, 2017 – via Wall Street Journal.  
  52. **^** "Obama's Tide of War". _The Wall Street Journal_. October 19, 2016. Archived from the original on April 2, 2017. Retrieved  April 24, 2017. 
  53. **^** "Obama's Iran Missile War". _The Wall Street Journal_. October 13, 2016. Archived from the original on April 2, 2017. Retrieved  April 24, 2017. 
  54. **^** Shaun W. Elsasser, Riley E. Dunlap: _Leading Voices in the Denier Choir: Conservative Columnists' Dismissal of Global Warming and Denigration of Climate Science_. American Behavioral Scientist 57, No. 6, 2013, 754–776, doi:10.1177/0002764212469800.
  55. **^** Karen Akerlof et al.: _Communication of climate projections in US media amid politicization of model science_. Nature Climate Change 2, 2012, 648–654 doi:10.1038/nclimate1542.
  56. **^** Cook, J.; Nuccitelli, D.; Green, S. A.; Richardson, M.; Winkler, B. R.; Painting, R.; Way, R.; Jacobs, P.; Skuce, A. (2013). "Quantifying the consensus on anthropogenic global warming in the scientific literature". _Environmental Research Letters_. **8** (2): 024024. doi:10.1088/1748-9326/8/2/024024.  
  57. **^** Lindzen, Richard S. (November 30, 2009). "The Climate Science Isn't Settled". _Wall Street Journal_. Archived from the original on March 2, 2014. Retrieved  February 17, 2014. 
  58. **^** Supran, Geoffrey; Oreskes, Naomi (2017). "Assessing ExxonMobil's climate change communications (1977–2014)". _Environmental Research Letters_. **12** (8). doi:10.1088/1748-9326/aa815f.  
  59. **^** Remarkable Editorial Bias On Climate Science At The Wall Street Journal Archived January 29, 2012, at the Wayback Machine., Peter Gleick, Forbes, January 27, 2012
  60. **^** "Wall Street Journal accepts environmentalist ad but charges extra". _The Washington Post_. June 14, 2016. Archived from the original on June 15, 2016. Retrieved  June 17, 2016. 
  61. **^** Lauren Feldman et al.: _Polarizing news? Representations of threat and efficacy in leading US newspapers' coverage of climate change_. Public Understanding of Science 2015, doi:10.1177/0963662515595348.
  62. **^** " "Democrats, Russians and the FBI"". 
  63. **^** Groseclose, T.; Milyo, J. (2005). "A Measure of Media Bias". _The Quarterly Journal of Economics_. **120** (4): 1191. doi:10.1162/003355305775097542.  
  64. **^** Liberman, Mark (December 22, 2005). "Linguistics, Politics, Mathematics". Language Log. Archived from the original on September 10, 2006. Retrieved November 6, 2006. 
  65. **^** Shafer, Jack (May 7, 2007). "The Murdoch Street Journal". _Slate_. Archived from the original on September 18, 2008. Retrieved  September 7, 2008. 
  66. **^** "A New Owner". _The Wall Street Journal_. August 1, 2007. Archived from the original on June 25, 2009. Retrieved  September 7, 2008. 
  67. **^** _Barbarians at the Gate_ on IMDb
  68. **^** "The Pulitzer Prizes". Archived from the original on September 25, 2006.  
  69. **^** Sanford, David. "Back to the Future: One Man's AIDS Tale Shows How Quickly Epidemic Has Turned Archived June 30, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.". _The Wall Street Journal_ (New York), November 8, 1997.
  70. **^** Pulitzer Prize Winners: 1997 – National Reporting, retrieved August 8, 2007. Archived July 11, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.
  71. **^** Gladwell, Malcolm. "Open Secrets Archived September 29, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.". _The New Yorker_ , January 8, 2007.
  72. **^** Enron CFO's Partnership Had Millions in Profit Archived August 23, 2006, at the Wayback Machine., _The Wall Street Journal_ (New York), October 19, 2001. Retrieved August 19, 2006. (PDF)
  73. **^** "Raymond Snoddy on Media: Logic says WSJ is safe with Murdoch". Mediaweek.co.uk. June 6, 2007. Archived from the original on December 22, 2012. Retrieved  June 5, 2011. 
  74. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Bussey, John. "The Eye of the Storm: One Journey Through Desperation and Chaos Archived May 11, 2011, at the Wayback Machine.". _The Wall Street Journal_ , page A1, September 12, 2001. Retrieved August 8, 2007.
  75. **^** "The Pulitzer Prizes – Works". _pulitzer.org_. Archived from the original on December 30, 2010.  
  76. **^** Cullison, Alan, and Andrew Higgins. "Forgotten Computer Reveals Thinking Behind Four Years of Al Qaeda Doings". _The Wall Street Journal_ (New York), December 31, 2001.
  77. **^** "The Pulitzer Prizes – The Medal". _The Pulitzer Prizes_. Archived from the original on October 27, 2013. Retrieved  October 29, 2013. 
  78. **^** Ademy, Janet (September 30, 2010). "McDonald's May Drop Health Plan". Wall Street Journal. Archived from the original on October 4, 2010. Retrieved September 30, 2010. 
  79. **^** Arnall, Daniel (September 30, 2010). "McDonald's Fights Back Against Report It Will Drop Health Care Plan". ABC News. Archived from the original on October 2, 2010. Retrieved September 30, 2010. 
  80. **^** Fulton, April (September 30, 2010). "McDonald's threatens to cut skimpy health plans". National Public Radio. Archived from the original on October 1, 2010. Retrieved September 30, 2010. 
  81. **^** Pequent, Julian (September 30, 2010). "Health secretary says McDonald's not dropping health plans". The Hill. Archived from the original on October 3, 2010. Retrieved September 30, 2010. 
  82. **^** Weisenthal, Joe (September 30, 2010). "The WSJ's Demonization Of Obamacare Hits New Low With Article On McDonald's Dropping Coverage". Business Insider. Archived from the original on October 2, 2010. Retrieved September 30, 2010. 
  83. **^** Jason Ng (July 7, 2015). "Malaysia Orders Freeze of Accounts Tied to Probe of Alleged Transfers to Prime Minister Najib". _WSJ_. Archived from the original on April 23, 2017.  
  84. **^** Carreyrou, John (October 16, 2015). "Hot Startup Theranos Has Struggled With Its Blood-Test Technology". _Wall Street Journal_. ISSN 0099-9660. Archived from the original on April 21, 2017. Retrieved  April 22, 2017. 
  85. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Bilton, Nick. "Exclusive: How Elizabeth Holmes's House of Cards Came Tumbling Down". _The Hive_. Archived from the original on April 10, 2017. Retrieved  April 22, 2017. 
  86. **^** "Are The Wall Street Journal's Allegations About Theranos True". _Fortune_. Archived from the original on January 11, 2017. Retrieved  April 22, 2017. 
  87. **^** Weaver, Christopher; Carreyrou, John (January 18, 2017). "Second Theranos Lab Failed U.S. Inspection". _Wall Street Journal_. ISSN 0099-9660. Archived from the original on April 21, 2017. Retrieved  April 22, 2017. 
  88. **^** Weaver, Christopher (April 22, 2017). "Theranos Secretly Bought Outside Lab Gear, Ran Fake Tests: Court Filings". _Wall Street Journal_. ISSN 0099-9660. Archived from the original on April 21, 2017. Retrieved  April 22, 2017. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Merrill, John C. and Harold A. Fisher. _The world's great dailies: profiles of fifty newspapers_ (1980) pp 338–41

##  External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**The Wall Street Journal**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website (Mobile )
  * _The Wall Street Journal_ blogs
  * How Dow Jones Remade Business Journalism, by Cynthia Crossen, _Wall Street Journal_ , July 31, 2007

  * v
  * t
  * e

Current White House James S. Brady Press Briefing Room seating chart  
  
---  
  
| Row | Podium  
---|---  
  
**1  
2  
3  
4  
5  
6  
7**

|

NBC  
_Wall Street Journal_  
Agence France-Presse  
MSNBC  
Bloomberg BNA  
_Washington Examiner_  
Talk Media News/Univision

|

Fox News  
CBS Radio  
AP Radio  
Foreign Pool  
_Time_  
Yahoo! News  
_Dallas Morning News_

|

CBS News  
Bloomberg  
McClatchy  
_Washington Times_  
SiriusXM  
Salem Radio  
_Globe_/ _Roll Call_

|

AP  
NPR  
AURN  
_The Hill_  
Regionals  
Newsmax  
CBN

|

ABC News  
_Washington Post_  
Politico  
Fox News Radio  
_CSM_/ _NY Post_  
_Daily Mail_  
BBC/OAN

|

Reuters  
_NY Times_  
_Chicago Tribune_  
VOA  
RealClearPolitics  
_HuffPost_ / _NY Daily News_  
_BuzzFeed_ / _Daily Beast_

|

CNN  
_USA Today_  
ABC Radio  
_National Journal_  
Al Jazeera/PBS  
Westwood One  
_Financial Times_ / _Guardian_  
  
The seating chart as of July 10, 2017.  
  
White House Correspondents' Association  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Dow Jones & Company  
  
---  
National consumer products |

  * _Barron's_
  * _Financial News_
  * _Heat Street_
  * _MarketWatch.com_
    * BigCharts
    * VSE
  * _Vedomosti_
  * _The Wall Street Journal_
  * _The Wall Street Journal Asia_
  * _The Wall Street Journal Europe_
  * Wall Street Journal Radio Network
  * _WSJ._

  
  
Enterprise products |

  * Factiva
  * S&P Dow Jones Indices (2.6%)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pulitzer Prize for Breaking News Reporting (2001–2025)  
  
---  
  
  * _Miami Herald_ (2001)
  * _Wall Street Journal_ (2002)
  * _Eagle-Tribune_ (2003)
  * _Los Angeles Times_ (2004)
  * _Star-Ledger_ (2005)
  * _Times-Picayune_ (2006)
  * _Oregonian_ (2007)
  * _Washington Post_ (2008)
  * _New York Times_ (2009)
  * _Seattle Times_ (2010)
  * _The Tuscaloosa News_ (2012)
  * _The Denver Post_ (2013)
  * _The Boston Globe_ (2014)
  * _The Seattle Times_ (2015)
  * _Los Angeles Times_ (2016)
  * _East Bay Times_ (2017)

  
  
  * Complete list
  * (1985–2000)
  * (2001–2025)

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Pulitzer Prize for Public Service (2001–2025)  
  
---  
  
  * _Oregonian_ (2001)
  * _New York Times_ (2002)
  * _Boston Globe_ (2003)
  * _New York Times_ (2004)
  * _Los Angeles Times_ (2005)
  * _Biloxi Sun Herald_ / _New Orleans Times-Picayune_ (2006)
  * _Wall Street Journal_ (2007)
  * _Washington Post_ (2008)
  * _Las Vegas Sun_ (2009)
  * _Bristol Herald Courier_ (2010)
  * _Los Angeles Times_ (2011)
  * _The Philadelphia Inquirer_ (2012)
  * _Sun-Sentinel_ (2013)
  * _The Washington Post_ and _The Guardian_ (2014)
  * _The Post and Courier_ (2015)
  * Associated Press (2016)
  * _New York Daily News_ and ProPublica (2017)

  
  
  * Complete list
  * (1918–1925)
  * (1926–1950)
  * (1951–1975)
  * (1976–2000)
  * (2001–2025)

  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 134856480
  * LCCN: n79097650
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 0942 0800
  * GND: 4185032-4
  * SUDOC: 115003258

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=The_Wall_Street_Journal&oldid=814796167"

Categories:

  * The Wall Street Journal
  * American business newspapers
  * Conservatism in the United States
  * Daily newspapers published in the United States
  * Digital newspapers published in the United States
  * Dow Jones & Company
  * Financial data vendors
  * National newspapers published in the United States
  * Newspapers published in New York City
  * Publications established in 1889
  * Publishing companies established in 1921
  * 1889 establishments in New York (state)
  * Pulitzer Prize-winning newspapers
  * Websites utilizing paywalls

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * Use mdy dates from November 2017
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from November 2010
  * Articles needing additional references from July 2017
  * All articles needing additional references
  * Articles with unsourced statements from August 2011
  * Articles with unsourced statements from July 2009
  * Official website different in Wikidata and Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Afrikaans
  * العربية
  * Asturianu
  * বাংলা
  * Български
  * Bosanski
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Cymraeg
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Ελληνικά
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * Galego
  * 贛語
  * 한국어
  * हिन्दी
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ქართული
  * Қазақша
  * Kurdî
  * Latina
  * Latviešu
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Nederlands
  * नेपाल भाषा
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * ଓଡ଼ିଆ
  * ਪੰਜਾਬੀ
  * پنجابی
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Саха тыла
  * Scots
  * Shqip
  * සිංහල
  * Simple English
  * Slovenčina
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * Татарча/tatarça
  * తెలుగు
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * اردو
  * Tiếng Việt
  * ייִדיש
  * 粵語
  * Žemaitėška
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 11 December 2017, at 00:06.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

