

# Women's colleges in the United States

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

**Women's colleges in the United States** are single-sex U.S. institutions of
higher education that only admit female students. They are often liberal arts
colleges. There were approximately 37 active women's colleges in the United
States in the fall of 2016.[1]

## Contents

  * 1 Origins and types
  * 2 20th-century history
    * 2.1 World War II
    * 2.2 Women's College Coalition
    * 2.3 Coeducation
  * 3 21st-century history
  * 4 Notable alumnae of women's colleges
  * 5 List of women's colleges and universities in the United States
  * 6 _Forbes_ top ten women's colleges
  * 7 See also
  * 8 Notes
  * 9 Further reading
  * 10 External links

## Origins and types[edit]

See also: Timeline of women's colleges in the United States

    _See also_ : _Timeline of historically black women's colleges_

Mount Holyoke College (Mount Holyoke Female Seminary) in 1837

Education in the United States  
---  
  
  * By state and in insular areas
  * By subject area
  * History of
  * Issues: _Finance – Law – Literacy – Reform_
  * Levels: _Primary – Secondary – Higher_
  * Organizations

  
Education portal  
United States portal  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

  
  
Education for girls and women was originally provided within the family, by
locals dame schools and public elementary schools, and at female seminaries
found in every colony, but limited to young ladies from families with the
means to pay tuition and, arguably, still more limited by the focus on
providing ladylike accomplishments rather than academic training. These
seminaries or academies were usually small and often ephemeral, usually
established founded by a single woman or small group of women, they often
failed to outlive their founders. In evaluating the many claims of various
colleges to have been the "first" women's college, it is necessary to
understand that a number of these 18th- or early 19th-century female
seminaries later grew into academic, degree-granting colleges, while others
became notable private high schools. However, to have been a female seminary
at an early date is not the same thing as to have been a women's college at
that date.

Institutions of higher education for women, however, were primarily founded
during the early 19th century, many as teaching seminaries. As noted by the
Women's College Coalition:

> The formal education of girls and women began in the middle of the 19th
century and was intimately tied to the conception that society had of the
appropriate role for women to assume in life. Republican education prepared
girls for their future role as wives and mothers and taught religion, singing,
dancing, literature, etcetera. Academic education prepared girls for their
role as community leaders and social benefactors and had some elements of the
education offered boys. Seminaries educated women for the only socially
acceptable occupation: teaching. Only unmarried women could be teachers. Many
early women's colleges began as female seminaries and were responsible for
producing an important corps of educators.[2]

Irene Harwarth, Mindi Maline, and Elizabeth DeBra further note that, "women's
colleges were founded during the mid- and late-19th century in response to a
need for advanced education for women at a time when they were not admitted to
most institutions of higher education."[3] Early proponents of education for
women were Sarah Pierce (Litchfield Female Academy, 1792); Catharine Beecher
(Hartford Female Seminary, 1823); Zilpah P. Grant Banister (Ipswich Female
Seminary, 1828); and Mary Lyon. Lyon was involved in the development of both
Hartford Female Seminary and Ipswich Female Seminary. She was also involved in
the creation of _Wheaton Female Seminary_ (now Wheaton College, Massachusetts)
in 1834; it was re-chartered as a college in 1912. In 1837, Lyon founded
_Mount Holyoke Female Seminary_ (Mount Holyoke College), it was chartered as a
college in 1888.[4] Harwarth, Maline, and DeBra note that, "Mount Holyoke’s
significance is that it became a model for a multitude of other women’s
colleges throughout the country.".[5] Both Vassar College and Wellesley
College were patterned after Mount Holyoke.[6] Wesleyan College in Macon,
Georgia was the first college chartered for women, receiving its charter in
1836. Vassar College was the first of the Seven Sisters to be chartered as a
college in 1861. In 1840, the first Catholic women's college Saint Mary-of-
the-Woods College was founded by Saint Mother Theodore Guerin of the Sisters
of Providence in Indiana as an academy, later becoming the college, which
remains the oldest Roman Catholic women's college in the United States today.

Vassar College in 1862.

Some early women's colleges, such as Oread Institute chartered as a college
for women in Worcester, Massachusetts 1849, and the Baltimore Female College,
also founded 1849 at St. Paul Street and East Saratoga Street in downtown
Baltimore, later relocating to Park Avenue/Park Place and Wilson Street in the
Bolton Hill neighborhood under its longtime president Dr. Nathan C. Brooks,
(1809-1898), a noted classics scholar (until closing in the late 1880s),
however failed to survive.

Agnes Scott College

Another early women's school was the Moravian College, founded as a female
seminary in 1742 in Germantown and later moved to Bethlehem, Pennsylvania it
was originally called the _Bethlehem Female Seminary_. It began to grant
undergraduate degrees in 1863 and became the _Moravian Seminary and College
for Women_ in 1913. In 1954, it combined with the boys school, _Moravian
College and Theological Seminary_ and became coeducational.[7] The Moravians
of Salem, North Carolina began what is now Salem College in 1772 in Winston-
Salem.

While there were a few coeducational colleges (such as Oberlin College founded
in 1833, Guilford College, in 1837, Lawrence University in 1847, Antioch
College in 1853, and Bates College in 1855), almost all colleges and
universities at that time were exclusively for men. The first generally
accepted coordinate college, H. Sophie Newcomb Memorial College, (with Tulane
University), was founded in 1886, and followed a year later by Evelyn College
for Women, the coordinate college for Princeton University. The model was
quickly duplicated at other prestigious universities. Notable 19th-century
coordinate colleges included Barnard (with Columbia University), Pembroke
(with Brown University), and Radcliffe College (with Harvard University).
Twentieth-century examples include William Smith College (coordinate with
Hobart College) and Kirkland College associated with Hamilton College. (The
latter no longer exists as a stand-alone institution.)

While the majority of women's colleges are private institutions, there were a
few public colleges. In 1884 the legislature of the state of Mississippi
established Industrial Institute & College, (later Mississippi University for
Women) the first public college for women in the United States. Other states
soon followed: Georgia created Georgia State College for Women in 1889, North
Carolina created North Carolina Women's College in 1891, and Florida converted
its coeducational Florida State College to a women-only school in 1905. This
is similar to the establishment of Douglass Residential College (Rutgers
University), which was founded as the _New Jersey College for Women in 1918_
by Mabel Smith Douglass.[8]

Additional types of women's colleges include the Seven Sister colleges in the
Northern United States, historically black female educational institutions,
small Catholic women’s colleges in the United States (SCWCs), and women's
colleges in the Southern United States.

## 20th-century history[edit]

### World War II[edit]

Early in 1942, during World War II, debate arose concerning the role of
colleges and students during the War. The Selective Service age had been
lowered to 18 and a few questions arose: which men would go to college, which
ones into the U.S. Army, U.S. Navy, or the U.S. Coast Guard, how the college
students would be trained, and whether the colleges would be run by the
military organizations or by educators?

The status of women and women's colleges also entered into the debate: "Urging
a National Service Act for women, the American Council on Education's
President George Zook said: 'It is clear that women students cannot expect to
pursue college as usual while their brothers and male friends are rushed off
... Courses for women are going to be shortened and they are going to be
directed toward preparation for specific types of war service. ... These War
jobs are going to appear to college women to be hard and distasteful. Stronger
words could be used for what many of the men are going through'."[9]

### Women's College Coalition[edit]

The Women's College Coalition (WCC) was founded in 1979 and describes itself
as an "association of women's colleges and universities – public and private,
independent and church-related, two- and four-year – in the United States and
Canada whose primary mission is the education and advancement of women."[10]

### Coeducation[edit]

See also: Mixed-sex education

Smith College

With several Supreme Court cases in the 1950s on the appellate court level
determining that public single-sex universities violated the Equal Protection
Clause of the U.S. Constitution, many women's colleges have decided to accept
males. Two of the Seven Sister colleges made transitions during and after the
1960s. The first, Radcliffe College, merged with Harvard University. Beginning
in 1963, students at Radcliffe received Harvard diplomas signed by the
presidents of Radcliffe and Harvard and joint commencement exercises began in
1970. The same year, several Harvard and Radcliffe dormitories began swapping
students experimentally and in 1972 full co-residence was instituted. The
departments of athletics of both schools merged shortly thereafter. In 1977,
Harvard and Radcliffe signed an agreement that put undergraduate women
entirely in Harvard College. In 1999 Radcliffe College was dissolved and
Harvard University assumed full responsibility over the affairs of female
undergraduates. Radcliffe is now the _Radcliffe Institute for Advanced Study_
in Women's Studies at Harvard University. The second, Vassar College, declined
an offer to merge with Yale University and instead became coeducational in
1969. The remaining Seven Sisters decided against coeducation. Mount Holyoke
College engaged in a lengthy debate under the presidency of David Truman over
the issue of coeducation. On November 6, 1971, "after reviewing an exhaustive
study on coeducation, the board of trustees decided unanimously that Mount
Holyoke should remain a women's college, and a group of faculty was charged
with recommending curricular changes that would support the decision."[11]
Smith College also made a similar decision in 1971.[12] In 1969, Bryn Mawr
College and Haverford College (then all-male) developed a system of sharing
residential colleges. When Haverford became coeducational in 1980, Bryn Mawr
discussed the possibly of coeducation as well, but decided against it.[13] In
1983, Columbia University began admitting women after a decade of failed
negotiations with Barnard College for a merger along the lines of Harvard and
Radcliffe (Barnard has been affiliated with Columbia since 1900, but it
continues to be independently governed). Wellesley College also decided
against coeducation during this time.

A few historically black women's colleges became coeducational: Barber-Scotia
College adopted coeducation in 1954; Tillotson College (a women's college from
1926 to 1935) is now coeducational Huston-Tillotson University; Hartshorn
Memorial College merged with Virginia Union University in 1932; and Mary Allen
Seminary[14] became coeducational in 1933. Bennett College, founded as a
coeducational school, became a women's college in 1926.

Many public women's schools also went coeducational in the postwar era. One of
the first schools to make the transition in this era was Madison College in
Virginia, known since 1976 as James Madison University. The school, founded as
a women's college in 1908, admitted its first male day students in 1946,
although it was not officially recognized as a coeducational institution until
1966. In 1947, Florida State College for Women returned to its original status
as a coeducational institution and adopted its current name of Florida State
University. Three other public women's schools in Virginia later followed
Madison College in adopting coeducation—Mary Washington College, now the
University of Mary Washington, in 1970; Radford College, now Radford
University, in 1972; and Longwood College, now Longwood University, in 1976.
In North Carolina, the Women's College of the University of North Carolina was
converted to the coeducational University of North Carolina at Greensboro in
1963, at the same time as women were finally admitted to all programs of its
rival school, the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. In 1967, the
school then known as the Women's College of Georgia became coeducational; it
is now Georgia College & State University.

Mills College

Mississippi University for Women changed its single-sex admissions policy to
include men in 1982 following the U.S. Supreme Court ruling in _Mississippi
University for Women v. Hogan_. The court found that the university would
violate the Fourteenth Amendment's Equal Protection Clause if it denied
admission to its nursing program on the basis of gender.[15] The 5-4 opinion
was written by Justice O'Connor, who stated that "In limited circumstances, a
gender-based classification favoring one sex can be justified if it
intentionally and directly assists members of the sex that is
disproportionately burdened." She argued that there are a disproportionate
number of women who are nurses, and that denying admission to men "lends
credibility to the old view that women, not men, should become nurses, and
makes the assumption that nursing is a field for women a self-fulfilling
prophecy."[16] The ruling did not require the university to change its name to
reflect its coeducational status.[17]

In 1972, Texas Woman's University allowed men to its health science graduate
school. In 1994, the university opened all programs to male students. Despite
the university accepting male students, the university's mission is still to
serve primarily women. Today, the student body is approximately 90% female and
is led by a woman chancellor.[18]

On May 3, 1990, the Trustees of Mills College announced that they had voted to
admit male students.[19] This decision led to a two-week student and staff
strike, accompanied by numerous displays of non-violent protests by the
students.[20][21] At one point, nearly 300 students blockaded the
administrative offices and boycotted classes.[22] On May 18, the Trustees met
again to reconsider the decision,[23] leading finally to a reversal of the
vote.[24]

## 21st-century history[edit]

The trend toward coeducation continued in the 21st century. Notre Dame College
in Ohio admitted its first men in 2001. In Pennsylvania, Seton Hill University
went coeducational in 2002, and Chestnut Hill College, which had established a
coeducational graduate program in 1980, admitted its first male undergraduates
in 2003.

Beginning in late 2004 the debate concerning coeducation resurfaced when,
citing decreased enrollment, Wells College announced that it would adopt
coeducation.[25] In response, there were student protests on
campus.[26][27][28] Parents of students also became involved in the
protests,[29] as did many alumnae. Some of the students stated that their
protests were patterned after those at Mills College in the early 1990s.[30] A
website called _Wells for Women_ was also established.[31] When the decision
to adopt coeducation was approved, students filed a lawsuit that was
eventually rejected.[32] Wells became coeducational in 2005.

A few other colleges became coeducational in this period. Immaculata
University and Lesley College also announced that they would adopt coeducation
around this time and became coeducational in 2005. In 2006, H. Sophie Newcomb
Memorial College was dissolved as part of the aftermath of Hurricane Katrina
(it is now a part of Tulane University). In 2007, Douglass College of Rutgers
University merged with the coed Rutgers College, changing its name to the
_Douglass Residential College._ While a part of Rutgers, it will offer
dormitories and classes exclusively for women. Regis College became
coeducational in 2007.

Debate increased when Randolph-Macon Woman's College announced that it would
adopt coeducation and change its name. Former Interim president Ginger H.
Worden argued (in a September 17, 2006 editorial for the _Washington Post_ )
that it was not economically feasible for the college to remain single-sex as
young women are no longer interested in attending women's colleges.[33] In
response, a number of presidents of women's colleges challenged Worden's
article, arguing that other women's colleges are still doing well and
attracting students. This includes: **Agnes Scott College** ,[34] **Converse
College** (Spartanburg, SC), **Columbia College** ,[35] The Seven Sisters,[36]
a separate article from **Mount Holyoke College** ,[37][38] **Simmons
College** ,[39] and **Hollins University.**[40] Sweet Briar College announced
March 3, 2015, that it was closing Aug. 25 due to "insurmountable financial
challenges." [41] Almost immediately, a legal challenge was mounted by
students, faculty, and alumnae to keep the school open. On June 22, 2015, a
settlement brokered by the attorney general of Virginia was accepted by the
county circuit court that resulted in Sweet Briar College remaining
open.[42][43]

In addition, there were numerous protests on campus including rallies,
blocking administrative offices, mass requests for transfer transcripts,
banners all over campus, striking from classes, and participation in quiet
protest to highlight lack of student voices in the board of trustees
votes.[44][45] This led to the formation of a non-profit organization
"Preserve Education Choice" (PEC),[46] composed of students, faculty, and
alumnae who are trying to reverse the decision. _Preserve Educational Choice_
filed two lawsuits.[47] The Lynchburg Circuit Court dismissed both lawsuits on
January 23, 2007.[48] PEC raised enough money, however, to appeal both
dismissals[49] and a group of nine students brought the case to the Virginia
Supreme Court where "Richmond lawyer Wyatt B. Durrette Jr. asked the state's
high court to grant an appeal of the group's lawsuit.[50] In addition,
Professor emeritus of romance languages, Charlotte Stern, published the 24
page letter (with signatures from alumnae, former professors and a former
president of Randolph's board of trustees) condemning the decision on the PEC
website.[51][52][52] Ginger Hill Worden, Interim President, responded to this
letter.[53]

The Virginia Supreme Court agreed to hear appeals in both the student contract
and charitable trust cases. The Court affirmed the trial court's decision in
both cases in opinions issued June 6, 2008.[54] It was renamed Randolph
College on July 1, 2007, when it became coeducational.

A similar controversy erupted in 2011 when Peace College, in Raleigh, NC,
announced its plans to become coeducational beginning the following year.[55]
Despite protests from alumnae, William Peace University began admitting men in
the fall of 2012. Also in fall 2012, Georgian Court University in New Jersey
admitted its first male day students; in 2013–14, that school became fully
coeducational, with men being allowed to live on campus and participate in all
campus activities.

The most recent women's college to become fully coed was Midway University in
Kentucky, which announced in May 2016 that it would admit men into its daytime
undergraduate program, the last component of the institution that remained
women-only, effective that August. In announcing the move, the school's
president noted that many surveys indicated that only 2% of high school girls
wanted to attend a women-only school, and added, "We see this change as
strengthening our historic mission to educate women by broadening our reach to
that 98 percent of young women who would never consider a women’s
college."[56]

A number of women's colleges have taken steps to adopt policies inclusive of
transgender students. As of June 2015, seven women's colleges (Barnard
College, Bryn Mawr College, Mills College, Mount Holyoke College, Simmons
College, Scripps College, and Smith College) have articulated admissions
policies regarding transgender applicants.[57][58][59][60]

## Notable alumnae of women's colleges[edit]

Main article: List of alumnae of women's colleges in the United States

Women's colleges in the United States have produced a number of important
alumnae in the arts, politics, and in the sciences.[61]

## List of women's colleges and universities in the United States[edit]

  * Agnes Scott College
  * Alverno College
  * Barnard College
  * Bay Path University
  * Bennett College for Women
  * Brenau University
  * Bryn Mawr College
  * Cedar Crest College
  * College of Saint Mary
  * Columbia College
  * Converse College
  * Cottey College
  * Hollins University
  * Judson College
  * Meredith College
  * Mills College
  * Moore College of Art and Design
  * Mount Holyoke College
  * Mount Mary University
  * Mount Saint Mary's University, Los Angeles
  * Notre Dame of Maryland University
  * Radcliffe College
  * Russell Sage College of The Sage Colleges
  * St. Catherine University
  * Saint Mary's College
  * Salem College
  * Scripps College
  * Simmons College
  * Smith College
  * Spelman College
  * Stephens College
  * Sweet Briar College
  * Trinity Washington University
  * University of Saint Joseph
  * Ursuline College
  * Wellesley College
  * Wesleyan College
  * The Women's College of the University of Denver

## _Forbes_ top ten women's colleges [edit]

In August 2009, _Forbes_ magazine offered their choice of the ten best women's
colleges in the United States:

  * Barnard College
  * Bryn Mawr College
  * Cedar Crest College
  * Mills College
  * Mount Holyoke College
  * Simmons College
  * Smith College
  * Spelman College
  * Sweet Briar College
  * Wellesley College[62]

##  See also[edit]

  * List of current and historical women's universities and colleges in the United States
  * Women Presidents or Chancellors of Co-ed Colleges and Universities
  * Timeline of women's colleges in the United States
  * Seven Sisters (colleges)
  * Women's colleges in the Southern United States
  * Women's College Coalition
  * Men's colleges in the United States
  * Mixed-sex education

## Notes[edit]

  1. **^** https://www.insidehighered.com/quicktakes/2015/12/09/college-new-rochelle-goes-completely-coed
  2. **^** The Rise of Women's Colleges, Coeducation Archived May 16, 2008, at the Wayback Machine.
  3. **^** Harwarth, Irene. "Women's Colleges in the United States: History, Issues, and Challenges". ed.gov. Archived from the original on February 4, 2005. Retrieved October 14, 2006. 
  4. **^** "About Mount Holyoke". mountholyoke.edu. Retrieved  September 1, 2006. 
  5. **^** Irene Harwarth; Mindi Maline; Elizabeth DeBra. "Women's Colleges in the United States: History, Issues, and Challenges". U.S. Department of Education National Institute on Postsecondary Education, Libraries, and Lifelong Learning. Archived from the original on February 4, 2005. 
  6. **^** Jennifer L. Crispen. "Seven Sisters and a Country Cousin". sbc.edu. 
  7. **^** "Looking for something?". Moravian.edu. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 
  8. **^** Harwarth, Irene (1997). _Women's Colleges in the United States: History, Issues, & Challenges_. Darby, PA: Diane. ISBN 0-7881-4324-7. 
  9. **^** "Who Will Run the Colleges?". _TIME_. October 26, 1942. Retrieved  August 7, 2008. 
  10. **^** "Women's College Coalition: About Us". Womenscolleges.org. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 
  11. **^** "Mount Holyoke: A Detailed History". mtholyoke.edu.  
  12. **^** "Smith Tradition". smith.edu. Archived from the original on January 1, 2007.  
  13. **^** "A Brief history of Bryn Mawr College". brynmawr.edu. Archived from the original on January 20, 2008.  
  14. **^** "Mary Allen Seminary". Tshaonline.org. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 
  15. **^** "Mississippi IHL – Mississippi's Universities". Ihl.state.ms.us. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 
  16. **^** "Mississippi University for Women v. Hogan", 458 U.S. 718 (1982)
  17. **^** "MUW – Planning and Institutional Effectiveness". Muw.edu. Archived from the original on October 17, 2010. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 
  18. **^** http://www.twu.edu/administration/brief-history-of-twu/
  19. **^** "Venerable School for Women Is Going Co-ed". nytimes.com. May 4, 1990.  
  20. **^** "Mills Students Protesting Admission of Men". nytimes.com. May 5, 1990.  
  21. **^** Bishop, Katherine (May 6, 1990). "Disbelieving and Defiant, Students Vow: No Men". nytimes.com. 
  22. **^** "Protest Continues at College Over Decision to Admit Men". nytimes.com. May 8, 1990.  
  23. **^** "College to Reconsider Decision to Admit Men". nytimes.com. May 12, 1990.  
  24. **^** Bishop, Katherine (May 19, 1990). "Women's College Rescinds Its Decision to Admit Men". nytimes.com. 
  25. **^** Wells College Computer Services. "Wells College – News". Wells.edu. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  26. **^** Tarby, Russ (June 14, 2002). "Trustees greeted by angry students". AuburnPub.com. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  27. **^** Spohr, George (June 14, 2002). "Students stage sit-in to protest". AuburnPub.com. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  28. **^** Barton, Noelle (June 14, 2002). "Wells students not going home". AuburnPub.com. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  29. **^** Barton, Noelle (June 14, 2002). "Angered Wells parents feel left out". AuburnPub.com. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  30. **^** Spohr, George (June 14, 2002). "Wells students' sit-in patterned after Mills". AuburnPub.com. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  31. **^** "Wells for Women". Archived from the original on October 27, 2009. Retrieved  August 13, 2011. 
  32. **^** Wogan, Lisa. "When Wells Run Dry: Another women's college opens the door to men". Ms. Magazine. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  33. **^** Worden, Virginia (September 17, 2006). "Why We Had No Choice but to Go Coed". washingtonpost.edu. Retrieved October 20, 2006. 
  34. **^** Kiss, Elizabeth. "Reaffirming Our Commitment to Women's Education". agnesscott.edu. Retrieved October 20, 2006. 
  35. **^** Whitson, Caroline (October 17, 2006). "The case for women's colleges". thestate.com. Retrieved October 20, 2006. 
  36. **^** Simpson, April (November 5, 2006). "'Sisters' don't want a future in coeducation: Women's colleges see an obligation". _Boston Globe_. Retrieved  November 6, 2006. 
  37. **^** Creighton, Joanne (May 21, 2007). "Why we need women's colleges". _Boston Globe_. Archived from the original on July 10, 2007. Retrieved  May 21, 2007. 
  38. **^** Mount Holyoke College :A Tradition of Their Own Archived July 11, 2007, at the Wayback Machine.
  39. **^** Scrimshaw, Susan (October 4, 2006). "Yes to women's colleges". _Boston Globe_. Retrieved  October 14, 2006. 
  40. **^** "Women's colleges must be an option". roanoke.com. September 14, 2005. Archived from the original on September 13, 2012. Retrieved  October 14, 2006. 
  41. **^** Kapsidelis, Karin (March 3, 2015). "Sweet Briar College to close". _Richmond Times-Dispatch_. Retrieved  March 3, 2015. 
  42. **^** Stolberg, Sheryl (June 23, 2015). "Sweet Briar is Saved but Is not in the Clear". The New York Times. Retrieved June 25, 2015. 
  43. **^** Svrluga, Susan (June 22, 2015). "Sweet Briar survives: Judge approves settlement deal to keep the college open". The Washington Post. Retrieved June 25, 2015. 
  44. **^** Nguyen, Janet (August 29, 2006). "R-MWC sends message to board of trustees". NewsAdvance.com. Retrieved February 18, 2007. 
  45. **^** "YouTube footage of campus protests and efforts to save RMWC". YouTube. December 15, 2006. Retrieved  February 18, 2007. 
  46. **^** "Preserve Education Choice". Preserveeducationalchoice.org. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 
  47. **^** Gardner, Amy (October 22, 2006). "Coed Vote Brings Legal, Financial Repercussions". _The Washington Post_. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 
  48. **^** Challenges to coed decision dismissed
  49. **^** The Associated Press (July 2, 2007). "Group suing over coed vote continues fundraising efforts". Jacksonville.com. Retrieved March 14, 2011. 
  50. **^** Va. Supreme Court hears argument for appeal of coed challenge [ _dead link_ ]
  51. **^** Stern, Charlotte (June 30, 2007). "How the Board of Trustees Hijacked R-MWC Right Before Our Eyes" (PDF). Preserve Educational Choice Inc. Archived from the original (PDF) on September 27, 2007. Retrieved July 22, 2007. 
  52. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Desrets, Christa (July 22, 2007). "She said, she said: The coed debate broken down". The News & Advance. Retrieved July 22, 2007. 
  53. **^** Worden, Ginger Hill. "Ginger Hill Worden, Interim President, responds to What Every Trustee Should Know and 20 Reasons Why You Should Change Your Vote". Randolph College. 
  54. **^** Desrets, Christa (July 31, 2007). "Richmond Appeals go to Virginia Supreme Court". The News & Advance. 
  55. **^** "Peace College going coed, changing its name". newsobserver.com. July 21, 2011.  
  56. **^** "Midway University Trustees vote to accept men into its daytime undergraduate programs" (Press release). Midway University. May 16, 2016. Retrieved  April 11, 2017. 
  57. **^** Kellaway, Mitch (February 11, 2015). "Bryn Mawr Becomes Fourth U.S. Women's College to Accept Transgender Students". Advocate.com. 
  58. **^** "Admission Policy Announcement". Smith College website. May 2, 2015.  
  59. **^** "Barnard Announces Transgender Admissions Policy". Barnard College website. June 4, 2015.  
  60. **^** https://www.insidehighered.com/quicktakes/2014/12/08/scripps-college-will-admit-transgender-women
  61. **^** "Alumnae of Women's Colleges".  
  62. **^** Brown, Heidi (August 12, 2009). "Why Women's Colleges Are Still Relevant". _Forbes_. Retrieved  March 14, 2011. 

## Further reading[edit]

  * Creighton, Joanne V. _A Tradition of Their Own: Or, If a Woman Can Now Be President of Harvard, Why Do We Still Need Women’s Colleges?._
  * Eisenmann, Linda. _Historical Dictionary of Women's Education in the United States_ (1998) online
  * Eisenmann, Linda. “Reconsidering a Classic: Assessing the History of Women's Higher Education a Dozen Years after Barbara Solomon.” _Harvard Educational Review,_ 67 (Winter 1997): 689–717.
  * Gordon, Lynn D. _Gender and Higher Education in the Progressive Era_ (1990).
  * Guy-Sheftall, Beverly. "Black Women and Higher Education: Spelman and Bennett Colleges Revisited." _The Journal of Negro Education_ , Vol. 51, No. 3, The Impact of Black Women in Education: An Historical Overview (Summer, 1982), pp. 278–287.
  * Harwarth, Irene B. "A Closer Look at Women's Colleges." National Institute on Postsecondary Education, Libraries, and Lifelong Learning, Office of Educational Research and Improvement, U.S. Department of Education, 1999.
  * \---, Mindi Maline and Elizabeth DeBra. "Women's Colleges in the United States: History, Issues, and Challenges: Executive Summary." U.S. Department of Education National Institute on Postsecondary Education, Libraries, and Lifelong Learning.
  * Horowitz, Helen Lefkowitz. _Alma Mater: Design and Experience in the Women's Colleges from Their Nineteenth-Century Beginnings to the 1930s,_ Amherst: University of Massachusetts Press, 1993 (2nd edition).
  * Lasser, Carol, ed. _Educating Men and Women Together: Coeducation in a Changing World_ (1987).
  * McClelland, Averil Evans. _The education of women in the United States: A guide to theory, teaching, and research_ (Routledge, 2014).
  * Muhlenfeld, Elisabeth and Nancy Gray. "Women's colleges must be an option." _The Roanoke Times_ , September 14, 2006.
  * Oates, Mary J., ed. _Higher Education for Catholic Women: An Historical Anthology_ (Garland, 1987).
  * Rosenberg, Rosalind. "The Limits of Access: The History Of Coeducation in America." In _Women and Higher Education: Essays from theMount Holyoke College Sesquicentennial Symposia._ Ed. John Mack Faragher and Florence Howe. New York: Norton, 1988.
  * Seller, Maxine Schwartz, ed. _Women Educators in the United States, 1820–1993: A BioBibliographic Sourcebook_ (Greenwood Press, 1994).
  * Sicherman, Barbara, and Carol Hurd Green, eds. _Notable American Women: The Modern Period_ (4 vol. Belknap Press, 1980).
  * Solomon, Barbara Miller. _In the Company of Educated Women: A History of Women and Higher Education in America_ (1985).
  * Whitson, Caroline (October 17, 2006). "The case for women's colleges". Columbia College. Retrieved October 20, 2006. 
  * Woody, Thomas. _A History of Women's Education in the United States_ (2 vols.; 1929).

##  External links[edit]

  * Women's College Coalition

  * v
  * t
  * e

Seven Sisters  
  
---  
  
| Barnard | Bryn Mawr | Mount Holyoke | Radcliffe | Smith | Vassar | Wellesley  
---|---|---|---|---|---|---  
  
  * Alumnae
  * 1889
  * New York

|

  * Alumnae
  * 1885
  * Pennsylvania

|

  * Alumnae
  * 1837
  * Massachusetts

|

  * Alumnae
  * 1879
  * Massachusetts

|

  * Alumnae
  * 1871
  * Massachusetts

|

  * Alumnae/i
  * 1861
  * New York

|

  * Alumnae
  * 1875
  * Massachusetts

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

Current women's universities and colleges in the United States  
  
---  
  
  * Agnes Scott
  * Alverno
  * Assumption
  * Barnard
  * Bay Path
  * Bennett
  * Brenau
  * Bryn Mawr
  * Cedar Crest
  * Chatham
  * Columbia
  * Converse
  * Cottey
  * Hollins
  * Judson
  * Mary Baldwin
  * Meredith
  * Mills
  * Moore
  * Mount Holyoke
  * Mt. Mary
  * Mt. St. Mary's
  * New Rochelle
  * Notre Dame
  * Russell Sage
  * St. Benedict
  * St. Catherine
  * St. Elizabeth
  * St. Joseph
  * St. Mary-of-the-Woods
  * St. Mary
  * St. Mary's
  * Salem
  * Scripps
  * Simmons
  * Smith
  * Spelman
  * Stephens
  * Stern
  * Sweet Briar
  * Trinity
  * Ursuline
  * Wellesley
  * Wesleyan
  * Women's College of the University of Denver

  
  
  * v
  * t
  * e

American women's colleges that became coeducational  
  
---  
Became  
coeducational |

  * Adelphi
  * Albertus Magnus
  * Andrew
  * Anna Maria
  * Barber-Scotia
  * Beaver
  * Bennington
  * Blue Mountain College
  * Brescia
  * Cabrini
  * Caldwell
  * Carlow
  * Cazenovia
  * Chestnut Hill
  * Chowan
  * Columbia (MO)
  * Connecticut College
  * Dominican (CA)
  * Dominican (NY)
  * Drexel College of Medicine
  * Elms
  * Elmira
  * Emmanuel (MA)
  * Felician
  * Florida State
  * Fontbonne
  * Georgia College
  * Georgian Court
  * Goucher
  * Greensboro
  * Holy Family
  * Holy Names
  * Hood
  * Hunter
  * Huston-Tillotson
  * Immaculata
  * Incarnate Word
  * James Madison
  * Keuka
  * LaGrange
  * Lake Erie
  * Lasell
  * Lesley
  * Lindenwood
  * Longwood
  * MacMurray
  * Mary Hardin–Baylor
  * Mary Washington
  * Marygrove
  * Marymount (CA)
  * Marymount (VA)
  * Marymount Manhattan
  * Marywood
  * Mercy (NY)
  * Mercyhurst
  * Midway
  * Misericordia
  * Mississippi University for Women
  * Mount Mercy
  * Mount St. Joseph
  * Mount St. Vincent
  * Montevallo
  * Moravian
  * Notre Dame (OH)
  * Notre Dame de Namur
  * Ohio Dominican
  * Our Lady of Holy Cross
  * Our Lady of the Lake
  * Pine Manor
  * Queens (NC)
  * Radford
  * Randolph
  * Regis (MA)
  * Rosemont
  * Rivier
  * St. Francis (IL)
  * St. Joseph's (NY)
  * St. Scholastica
  * St. Xavier (IL)
  * Sarah Lawrence
  * Salve Regina
  * Seton Hill
  * Shorter
  * Silver Lake
  * Skidmore
  * Southern Virginia
  * Spalding
  * Stevenson
  * Texas Woman's
  * Thomas More (KY)
  * Trocaire
  * UNC Greensboro
  * University of Science and Arts of Oklahoma
  * Vassar
  * Virginia Union
  * Viterbo
  * Washington College of Law
  * Webster
  * Wells
  * Wheaton (MA)
  * William Peace
  * William Woods
  * Wilson (PA)
  * Winthrop

  
  
Coordinate  
colleges |

  * Douglass (merged with Rutgers University)
  * Evelyn College for Women (with Princeton University; closed)
  * Georgia State College for Women (with Georgia School of Technology to form Georgia College & State University)
  * H. Sophie Newcomb Memorial College (merged with Tulane University)
  * Margaret Morrison Carnegie College (merged with Carnegie Mellon University)
  * Maryhill College (merged with St. Edward's University)
  * Mt Vernon College (with GW University)
  * Pembroke (merged with Brown University)
  * Radcliffe College (merged with Harvard University)
  * University of Mary Washington (with University of Virginia)

  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Women%27s_colleges_in_the_United_States&oldid=816714876"

Categories:

  * Women's universities and colleges in the United States
  * Liberal arts colleges

Hidden categories:

  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from September 2016
  * Use mdy dates from November 2015

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### Languages

  * العربية
  * فارسی

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 23 December 2017, at 05:26.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

