

# World Economic Forum

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

"WEF" redirects here. For other uses, see WEF (disambiguation).

World Economic Forum

Headquarters in Cologny  
  
---  
Motto | Committed to improving the state of the world  
Formation | 1971; 46 years ago (1971)  
Founder | Klaus Schwab  
Type | Nonprofit organization  
Legal status | Foundation  
Purpose | Economic[ _vague_ ]  
Headquarters | Cologny, Switzerland  
  
Region served

| Worldwide  
  
Official language

| English  
  
Executive Chairman

| Klaus Schwab  
Website | www.weforum.org  
  
Formerly called

| European Management Forum  
  
The **World Economic Forum** ( **WEF** ) is a Swiss nonprofit foundation,
based in Cologny, Geneva. Recognized by the Swiss authorities as an
international body,[1] its mission is cited as "committed to improving the
state of the world by engaging business, political, academic, and other
leaders of society to shape global, regional, and industry agendas".

The Forum is best known for its annual meeting at the end of January in Davos,
a mountain resort in Graubünden, in the eastern Alps region of Switzerland.
The meeting brings together some 2,500 top business leaders, international
political leaders, economists, and journalists for up to four days to discuss
the most pressing issues facing the world. Often this location alone is used
to identify meetings, participation, and participants with such phrases as, "a
Davos panel" and "a Davos Man".[2]

The organization also convenes some six to eight regional meetings each year
in locations across Africa, East Asia, and Latin America, and holds two
further annual meetings in China and the United Arab Emirates. Beside
meetings, the foundation produces a series of research reports and engages its
members in sector-specific initiatives.[3]

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 Organization
    * 2.1 Membership
  * 3 Activities
    * 3.1 Annual meeting in Davos
      * 3.1.1 Participants
    * 3.2 Summer annual meeting
    * 3.3 Regional meetings
    * 3.4 Young Global Leaders
    * 3.5 Social Entrepreneurs
    * 3.6 Global Shapers
    * 3.7 Thirst
    * 3.8 Research reports
    * 3.9 Initiatives
    * 3.10 Awards
      * 3.10.1 Technology Pioneers Programme
  * 4 Criticism
    * 4.1 History of criticism
    * 4.2 Globalization rationale questioned
    * 4.3 Public cost of security
    * 4.4 Private vs public meetings
    * 4.5 Influence of financial supporters
    * 4.6 Public Eye Awards
    * 4.7 "Davos Man"
    * 4.8 Gender debate
    * 4.9 Stateless elitism erosion
  * 5 See also
  * 6 References
  * 7 Reference books
  * 8 External links

## History[edit]

Professor Klaus Schwab opens the inaugural European Management Forum in Davos
in 1971.

F.W. de Klerk and Nelson Mandela shake hands at the annual meeting of the
World Economic Forum held in Davos in January 1992

Naoto Kan, then Japanese prime minister gives a special message at the World
Economic Forum Annual Meeting 2011

Klaus Schwab, founder and executive chairman, World Economic Forum

Carlos Ghosn, the chairman and CEO of Renault, Nissan, Renault-Nissan Alliance
and the Chairman of AvtoVAZ

The forum was founded in 1971 by Klaus Schwab, a German-born business
professor at the University of Geneva.[4] First named the "European Management
Forum", it changed its name to the World Economic Forum in 1987 and sought to
broaden its vision to include providing a platform for resolving international
conflicts.

In the summer of 1971, Schwab invited 444 executives from Western European
firms to the **first European Management Symposium** held in the Davos
Congress Centre under the patronage of the European Commission and European
industrial associations, where Schwab sought to introduce European firms to
American management practices. He then founded the WEF as a nonprofit
organization based in Geneva and drew European business leaders to Davos for
the annual meetings each January.[5]

Schwab developed the "stakeholder" management approach, which attributed
corporate success to managers actively taking account of all interests: not
merely shareholders, clients, and customers, but also employees and the
communities within which the firm is situated, including governments.[6]
Events in 1973, including the collapse of the Bretton Woods fixed-exchange
rate mechanism and the Arab–Israeli War, saw the annual meeting expand its
focus from management to economic and social issues, and, for the first time
political leaders were invited to the annual meeting in January 1974.[7]

Political leaders soon began to use the annual meeting as a neutral platform.
The _Davos Declaration_ was signed in 1988 by Greece and Turkey, helping them
turn back from the brink of war. In 1992, South African President F. W. de
Klerk met with Nelson Mandela and Chief Mangosuthu Buthelezi at the annual
meeting, their first joint appearance outside South Africa. At the 1994 annual
meeting, Israeli Foreign Minister Shimon Peres and PLO chairman Yasser Arafat
reached a draft agreement on Gaza and Jericho.[8]

In late 2015, the invitation was extended to include a North Korean delegation
for the 2016 forum, "in view of positive signs coming out of the country," the
WEF organizers noted. North Korea has not been attending the WEF since 1998.
The invitation was accepted but after the January 2016 North Korean nuclear
test on 6 January, the invitation was revoked, and the country's delegation
was made subject to "existing and possible forthcoming sanctions."[9] Despite
protests by North Korea calling the decision by the WEF managing board a
"sudden and irresponsible" move, the WEF committee maintained the exclusion
because "under these circumstances there would be no opportunity for
international dialogue."[10]

In 2017, the World Economic Forum in Davos attracted considerable attention
when for the first time, a head of state from the People's Republic of China
was invited to the alpine resort. With the backdrop of Brexit, an incoming
protectionist US administration and significant pressures on free trade zones
and trade agreements, President Xi Jinping defended the global economic
scheme, and portrayed China as a responsible nation and a leader for
environmental causes. He sharply rebuked the current populist movements that
would introduce tariffs and hinder global commerce, warning that such
protectionism could foster isolation and reduced economic opportunity.[11]

## Organization[edit]

Headquartered in Cologny, the forum also has offices in New York, Beijing and
Tokyo. On October 10, 2016, the Forum announced the opening of its new Center
for the Fourth Industrial Revolution in San Francisco. According to the Forum,
the center will "serve as a platform for interaction, insight and impact on
the scientific and technological changes that are changing the way we live,
work and relate to one another".[12]

The World Economic Forum strives to be impartial and is not tied to any
political, partisan, or national interests. The foundation is "committed to
improving the State of the World".[13] Until 2012, it had observer status with
the United Nations Economic and Social Council; it is under the supervision of
the Swiss Federal Council. The foundation's highest governance body is the
foundation board.[14]

Erdoğan walks out of the session at the World Economic Forum in 2009.

During its annual meeting, more than 2,500 participants from slightly fewer
than 100 countries gather in Davos. Approximately 1,500 are business leaders,[
_citation needed_ ] drawn from its members, 1,000 of the world's top
companies. Besides these, participants included 219 public figures, including
40 heads of state or government, 64 cabinet ministers, 30 heads or senior
officials of international organizations, and 10 ambassadors. More than 432
participants were from civil society, including 32 heads or representatives of
non-governmental organizations, 225 media leaders, 149 leaders from academic
institutions and think tanks, 15 religious leaders of different faiths, and 11
union leaders.[15][ _not in citation given_ ]

### Membership[edit]

The foundation is funded by its 1,000 member companies, typically global
enterprises with more than five billion dollars in turnover (varying by
industry and region). These enterprises rank among the top companies within
their industry and/or country and play a leading role in shaping the future of
their industry and/or region. Membership is stratified by the level of
engagement with forum activities, with the level of membership fees increasing
as participation in meetings, projects, and initiatives rises.[16] As of 2011,
an annual membership costs $52,000 for an individual member, $263,000 for
"Industry Partner" and $527,000 for "Strategic Partner". An admission fee
costs $19,000 per person.[17] In 2014, WEF raised annual fees by 20 percent,
making the cost for "Strategic Partner" from SFr500,000 ($523,000) to
SFr600,000 ($628,000).[18]

## Activities[edit]

### Annual meeting in Davos[edit]

The flagship event of the foundation is the invitation-only annual meeting
held during the winter at the end of January in Davos, Switzerland, bringing
together chief executive officers from its 1,000 member companies, as well as
selected politicians, representatives from academia, NGOs, religious leaders,
and the media in an alpine winter environment. The town is small enough to
allow participants to meet anywhere outside the sessions and allows them the
greatest opportunities to attend receptions organized by companies and
countries.[19] The participants are also taking part in role playing events,
such as the Investment Heat Map.[20] Informal winter meetings may have led to
as many ideas and solutions as the official sessions.[21] Approximately 2,200
participants gather for the five-day event and attend some of the 220 sessions
in the official programme. The winter discussions focus around key issues of
global concern (such as the globalization, capital markets, wealth management,
international conflicts, environmental problems and their possible
solutions).[3]

As many as 500 journalists from online, print, radio, and television take
part, with access to all sessions in the official program, some of which are
also webcast.[22] Not all the journalists are given access to all areas,
however. This is reserved for white badge holders. "Davos runs an almost
caste-like system of badges," according to BBC journalist Anthony Reuben. "A
white badge means you're one of the delegates – you might be the chief
executive of a company or the leader of a country (although that would also
get you a little holographic sticker to add to your badge), or a senior
journalist. An orange badge means you're just a run-of-the-mill working
journalist."[23]

All plenary debates from the annual meeting also are available on YouTube,[24]
with photographs at Flickr,[25] and key quotes on Twitter.[26]

Year | Dates | Theme  
---|---|---  
2001 | 25-30 January | Sustaining Growth and Bridging the Divides: A Framework
for Our Global Future  
2002 |  |  
2003 |  | Rebuilding Confidence  
2004 |  | Partnering for Security and Prosperity  
2005 | 26-30 January | Taking Responsibility for Tough Choices  
2006 | 25-29 January | The Creative Imperative  
2007 | 24-28 January | Shaping the Global Agenda, The Shifting Power Equation  
2008 | 23-27 January | The Power of Collaborative Innovation  
2009 |  | Shaping the Post-Crisis World  
2010 | 27-30 January | Improve the State of the World: Rethink, Redesign,
Rebuild  
2011 |  | Shared Norms for the New Reality  
2012 | 25-29 January | The Great Transformation: Shaping New Models  
2013 | 23-27 January | Resilient Dynamism[27]  
2014 | 22-25 January | The Reshaping of the World: Consequences for Society,
Politics and Business.  
2015 | 21- 24 January | New global context  
2016 | 20-23 January | Mastering the Fourth Industrial Revolution  
2017 | 17-20 January | Responsive and Responsible Leadership  
  
#### Participants[edit]

Juan Manuel Santos, president of Colombia, at the 2010 World Economic Forum

In 2011, some 250 public figures (heads of state or government, cabinet
ministers, ambassadors, heads or senior officials of international
organizations) attended the annual meeting, including: Felipe Calderón, Robert
B. Zoellick, Álvaro Uribe Vélez, Nicolas Sarkozy, Ban Ki-moon, Angela Merkel,
N. Chandrababu Naidu, Ferenc Gyurcsány, François Fillon, Morgan Tsvangirai,
Gordon Brown, David Cameron, Min Zhu, Paul Kagame, Queen Rania of Jordan,
Dmitry Medvedev, Susilo Bambang Yudhoyono, Kevin Rudd, Barney Frank, Kofi
Annan, Werner Faymann, Leonel Fernández, Jacob Zuma, Naoto Kan, Jean-Claude
Trichet, and Zeng Peiyan.[28]

Al Gore, Bill Clinton, Bill Gates, Bono, Paulo Coelho, and Tony Blair also are
regular Davos attendees. Past attendees include Recep Tayyip Erdogan, Henry
Kissinger, Nelson Mandela, Raymond Barre, Julian Lloyd Webber, Sandro Salsano,
Wences Casares, and Yasser Arafat.

### Summer annual meeting[edit]

Wang Jianlin, Chairman of the Dalian Wanda Group, at the 2009 Annual Meeting
of the New Champions in Dalian

In 2007, the foundation established the Annual Meeting of the New Champions
(also called Summer Davos), held annually in China, alternating between Dalian
and Tianjin, bringing together 1,500 participants from what the foundation
calls Global Growth Companies, primarily from rapidly growing emerging
countries such as China, India, Russia, Mexico, and Brazil, but also including
quickly growing companies from developed countries. The meeting also engages
with the next generation of global leaders from fast-growing regions and
competitive cities, as well as technology pioneers from around the
globe.[29][30] The Chinese Premier has delivered a plenary address at each
annual meeting.

### Regional meetings[edit]

Prithviraj Chavan, chief minister of Maharashtra India; Sudha Pilay, member
secretary, planning commission, India; and Ben Verwaayen, chief executive
officer, Alcatel-Lucent, France were the co-chairs of the India Economic
Summit 2011 in Mumbai

Felipe Calderón, president of Mexico, speaking during _Latin America Broadens
Its Horizons_ , a session at the 2007 annual meeting of the World Economic
Forum

Every year regional meetings take place, enabling close contact among
corporate business leaders, local government leaders, and NGOs. Meetings are
held in Africa, East Asia, Latin America, and the Middle East. The mix of
hosting countries varies from year to year, but consistently China and India
have hosted throughout the decade since 2000.[31]

### Young Global Leaders[edit]

The group's Forum of Young Global Leaders[32] consists of 800 people chosen by
the forum organizers as being representative of contemporary leadership,
"coming from all regions of the world and representing all stakeholders in
society", according to the organization. After five years of participation
they are considered alumni.

### Social Entrepreneurs[edit]

Since 2000, the WEF has been promoting models developed by those in close
collaboration with the Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship,[33]
highlighting social entrepreneurship as a key element to advance societies and
address social problems.[34][35] Selected social entrepreneurs are invited to
participate in the foundation's regional meetings and the annual meetings
where they may meet chief executives and senior government officials. At the
Annual Meeting 2003, for example, Jeroo Billimoria met with Roberto Blois,
deputy secretary-general of the International Telecommunication Union, an
encounter that produced a key partnership for her organization Child helpline
international.[36]

### Global Shapers[edit]

In 2011, the World Economic Forum started a global network of people between
the ages of 20 and 30 who have shown great potential for future leadership
roles in society.[37] The Community of Global Shapers,[38] highlighting Global
Shapers, is a network of self-organizing local hubs based in each major city
around the world. They undertake events and activities intended by the Global
Shapers to generate a positive impact within their local community.

As of 11 July 2016 there are 459 Hubs with more than 6,100 Shapers.[39]

### Thirst[edit]

"Thirst" is an international non-profit organization based in Beijing, China.
It was set up in 2011 through the Water Security Council of the World Economic
Forum. The organization educates 14–24-year olds about the idea of embedded
water, the water crisis, and sustainable water usage.[40]

### Research reports[edit]

Two Academy Award winner, Pakistani journalist Sharmeen Obaid-Chinoy at the
forum in 2013

The foundation also acts as a think tank, publishing a wide range of reports.
In particular, "Strategic Insight Teams" focus on producing reports of
relevance in the fields of competitiveness, global risks, and scenario
thinking.

Filipino businessman Zóbel de Ayala at the forum in 2009

The "Competitiveness Team"[41] produces a range of annual economic reports
(first published in brackets): the Global Competitiveness Report (1979)
measured competitiveness of countries and economies; The Global Information
Technology Report (2001) assessed their competitiveness based on their IT
readiness; the Global Gender Gap Report examined critical areas of inequality
between men and women; the Global Risks Report (2006) assessed key global
risks; the Global Travel and Tourism Report (2007) measured travel and tourism
competitiveness; the Financial Development Report (2008)[42] aimed to provide
a comprehensive means for countries to establish benchmarks for various
aspects of their financial systems and establish priorities for improvement;
and the Global Enabling Trade Report (2008) presented a cross-country analysis
of the large number of measures facilitating trade among nations.[43]

The "Risk Response Network"[44] produces a yearly report assessing risks which
are deemed to be within the scope of these teams, have cross-industry
relevance, are uncertain, have the potential to cause upwards of US$10 billion
in economic damage, have the potential to cause major human suffering, and
which require a multi-stakeholder approach for mitigation.[45]

### Initiatives[edit]

The Global Health Initiative was launched by Kofi Annan at the annual meeting
in 2002. The GHI's mission was to engage businesses in public-private
partnerships to tackle HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and health systems.

Mohammad Khatami at Economic Forum in 2004

The Global Education Initiative (GEI), launched during the annual meeting in
2003, brought together international IT companies and governments in Jordan,
Egypt, and India[46] that has resulted in new personal computer hardware being
available in their classrooms and more local teachers trained in e-learning.
This is having a significant effect on the lives of children.[ _citation
needed_ ] The GEI model, which is scalable and sustainable, now is being used
as an educational blueprint in other countries including Rwanda.

The Environmental Initiative covers climate change and water issues. Under the
Gleneagles Dialogue on Climate Change, the U.K. government asked the World
Economic Forum at the G8 Summit in Gleneagles in 2005 to facilitate a dialogue
with the business community to develop recommendations for reducing greenhouse
gas emissions. This set of recommendations, endorsed by a global group of
CEOs, was presented to leaders ahead of the G8 Summit in Toyako and Hokkaido
held in July 2008.[47][48]

The Water Initiative brings together diverse stakeholders such as Alcan Inc.,
the Swiss Agency for Development and Cooperation, USAID India, UNDP India,
Confederation of Indian Industry (CII), Government of Rajasthan, and the NEPAD
Business Foundation to develop public-private partnerships on water management
in South Africa and India.

In an effort to combat corruption, the Partnering Against Corruption
Initiative (PACI) was launched by CEOs from the Engineering and Construction,
Energy and Metals, and Mining industries at the annual meeting in Davos during
January 2004. PACI is a platform for peer exchange on practical experience and
dilemma situations. Approximately 140 companies have joined the
initiative.[49]

The Environment and Natural Resource Security Initiative was emphasized for
the 2017 meeting to achieve inclusive economic growth and sustainable
practices for global industries. With increasing limitations on world trade
through national interests and trade barriers, the WEF has moved towards a
more sensitive and socially minded approach for global businesses with a focus
on the reduction of carbon emissions in China and other large industrial
nations.[50]

On 19 January 2017 the Coalition for Epidemic Preparedness Innovations (CEPI),
a global initiative to fight epidemics, was launched at the forum in Davos.
The internationally funded initiative aims at securing vaccine supplies for
global emergencies and pandemics, and to research new vaccines for tropical
diseases, that are now more menacing. The project is funded by private and
governmental donors, with an initial investment of US$460m from the
governments of Germany, Japan and Norway, plus the Bill & Melinda Gates
Foundation and the Wellcome Trust.[51]

### Awards[edit]

#### Technology Pioneers Programme[edit]

The Technology Pioneers Programme recognizes companies that are designing and
developing new technologies. The award is given to 30–50 companies each year.
Since 2000, Technology Pioneers have consisted of more than 400 companies from
5 continents.

The Tech Pioneers are integrated into programme activities with the objective
to identify and address future-oriented issues on the global agenda in
proactive, innovative, and entrepreneurial ways. By bringing these executives
together with scientists, academics, NGOs, and foundation members and
partners, the foundation's goal is to shed new light on how technologies may
be used to address, for example, finding new vaccines, creating economic
growth, and enhancement of global communication.[52]

## Criticism[edit]

Protest march against the WEF in Basel, 2006

The Transnational Institute describes the World Economic Forum's main purpose
as being "to function as a socializing institution for the emerging global
elite, globalization's "Mafiocracy" of bankers, industrialists, oligarchs,
technocrats and politicians. They promote common ideas, and serve common
interests: their own."[53]

A study, published in the _Journal of Commercial Research_ , investigated the
sociological impact of the WEF. It concluded that the WEF do not solve issues
such as poverty, global warming, chronic illness, or debt. They have simply
shifted the burden for the solution of these problems from governments and
business to "responsible consumers subjects: the bottom-of-the-pyramid
consumer, the green consumer, the health-conscious consumer, and the
financially literate consumer." They merely reframe the issues, and by so
doing perpetuate them. Gore is singled out as a prime example. Gore's speeches
deliberately shift focus away from the problems of unregulated markets and
corporate activities to one of moral pathologies, individual greed, etc. In
doing so he is actually promoting the creation of new markets, and hence
perpetuating the same old problems in a new guise. New markets will follow the
same patterns as the old ones because the core problem of corporate governance
is never addressed.[54]

### History of criticism[edit]

During the late 1990s the foundation, along with the G7, World Bank, World
Trade Organization, and International Monetary Fund, came under heavy
criticism by anti-globalization activists who claimed that capitalism and
globalization were increasing poverty and destroying the environment. Ten
thousand demonstrators disrupted the World Economic Forum in Melbourne,
obstructing the path of two hundred delegates to the meeting.[55] Repeatedly,
demonstrations are held in Davos _(seeAnti-WEF protests in Switzerland,
January 2003)_ to protest against what have been called the meetings of "fat
cats in the snow", a tongue-in-cheek term used by rock singer Bono.[56]

After 2014, the protest movement against the World Economic Forum has largely
died down, and Swiss police noted a significant decline in attending
protesters, 20 at most during the meeting in 2016. While protesters are still
more numerous in large Swiss cities, the protest movement itself has undergone
significant change.[57] Around 150 Tibetans and Uighurs protested in Geneva
and 400 Tibetans in Bern against the visit of the Chinese president for the
2017 meeting, with subsequent confrontations and arrests.[58]

### Globalization rationale questioned[edit]

The linguist, philosopher, and social critic Noam Chomsky has characterized
the term _globalization_ as propaganda when used in connection with trade
policies advanced by the World Economic Forum:

> The term "globalization" has been appropriated by the powerful to refer to a
specific form of international economic integration, one based on investor
rights, with the interests of people incidental. That is why the business
press, in its more honest moments, refers to the "free trade agreements" as
"free investment agreements" (Wall St, Journal). Accordingly, advocates of
other forms of globalization are described as "anti-globalization": and some,
unfortunately, even accept this term, though it is a term of propaganda that
should be dismissed with ridicule. No sane person is opposed to globalization,
that is, international integration. Surely not the left and the workers
movements, which were founded on the principle of international solidarity -
that is, globalization in a form that attends to the rights of people, not
private power systems

>

> The dominant propaganda systems have appropriated the term 'globalization'
to refer to the specific version of international economic integration that
they favor, which privileges the rights of investors and lenders, those of
people being incidental. In accord with this usage, those who favor a
different form of international integration, which privileges the rights of
human beings, become 'anti-globalist.' This is simply vulgar propaganda, like
the term 'anti-Soviet' used by the most disgusting commissars to refer to
dissidents. It is not only vulgar, but idiotic. Take the World Social Forum,
called 'anti-globalization' in the propaganda system—which happens to include
the media, the educated classes, etc., with rare exceptions. The WSF is a
paradigm example of globalization. It is a gathering of huge numbers of people
from all over the world, from just about every corner of life one can think
of, apart from the extremely narrow highly privileged elites who meet at the
competing World Economic Forum, and are called 'pro-globalization' by the
propaganda system. An observer watching this farce from Mars would collapse in
hysterical laughter at the antics of the educated classes.[59]

### Public cost of security[edit]

In January 2000, a thousand protesters marched through the streets of Davos
and smashed the window of the local McDonald's restaurant.[60] The tight
security measures around the campus of Davos have kept demonstrators from the
Alpine resort, and most demonstrations now are held in Zürich, Bern, or
Basel.[61] The costs of the security measures, which are shared by the
foundation and the Swiss cantonal and national authorities, frequently have
been criticized in the Swiss national media.[62][63]

### Private vs public meetings[edit]

Since the annual meeting in January 2003 in Davos, an _Open Forum Davos_ ,[64]
co-organized by the Federation of Swiss Protestant Churches, is held
concurrently with the Davos forum, opening up the debate about globalization
to the general public. The Open Forum has been held in the local high school
every year, featuring top politicians and business leaders. It is open to all
members of the public free of charge.[65][66]

The annual meeting of the forum also has been decried as a "mix of pomp and
platitude" and criticized for moving away from serious economics and
accomplishing little of substance, particularly with the increasing
involvement of NGOs that have little or no expertise in economics. Instead of
a discussion on the world economy with knowledgeable experts alongside key
business and political players, the annual meeting of the forum now features
the top political topics of the day appearing in media, such as global climate
change and AIDS in Africa.[67]

### Influence of financial supporters[edit]

Faculty member Steven Strauss at the Harvard Kennedy School, has raised an
additional concern, pointing out that many of the WEF's strategic partners
(who in return for financing the annual meeting have the ability to set the
intellectual agenda for the meeting) have been convicted of serious criminal,
civil, or human rights violations, raising significant issues about the
forum's legitimacy as a neutral convener on certain topics.[68]

### Public Eye Awards[edit]

The Public Eye Awards have been held every year since 2000. It is a counter-
event to the annual meeting of the World Economic Forum (WEF) in Davos. Public
Eye Awards is a public competition of the worst corporations in the world. In
2011, more than 50,000 people voted for companies that acted irresponsibly. At
a ceremony at a Davos hotel, the "winners" in 2011 were named as Indonesian
palm oil diesel maker, Neste Oil in Finland, and mining company AngloGold
Ashanti in South Africa.[69] According to Schweiz aktuell broadcast on 16
January 2015, a public presence during the WEF 2015, may not be guaranteed
because the massively increased security in Davos. The Public Eye Award will
be awarded for the last time in Davos: _Public Eyes says Goodbye to Davos_ ,
confirmed by Rolf Marugg (now _Landrats_ politician), by not directly engaged
politicians, and by the police responsible.[70]

###  "Davos Man"[edit]

"Davos Man" is a neologism referring to the global elite of wealthy
(predominantly) men, whose members view themselves as completely
"international". It is similar to the term _Masters of the Universe_ , applied
to influential financiers on Wall Street.

Davos men supposedly see their identity as a matter of personal choice, not an
accident of birth. According to political scientist Samuel P. Huntington, who
is credited with inventing the phrase "Davos Man",[71] they are people who
"have little need for national loyalty, view national boundaries as obstacles
that thankfully are vanishing, and see national governments as residues from
the past whose only useful function is to facilitate the élite's global
operations". In his 2004 article "Dead Souls: The Denationalization of the
American Elite", Huntington argues that this international perspective is a
minority elitist position not shared by the nationalist majority of the
people.[72]

John Fonte of the Hudson Institute has suggested that the transnational
ideology of _Davos Man_ represents a major challenge to Francis Fukuyama's
assertion that liberal democracy represents the fulfillment of _The End of
History and the Last Man_.[73]

###  Gender debate[edit]

Since 2011, the World Economic Forum has been addressing its very own gender
quota, to introduce at least one woman for every five senior executives that
attended. With apparent success, female participation increased significantly
from 9% to 15% between 2001 and 2005. In 2016, 18% of the WEF attendees were
female, this number increased to 21% in 2017.[74]

### Stateless elitism erosion[edit]

Hernando de Soto Polar of the Institute for Liberty and Democracy attributes a
similar concept to Fernand Braudel,[75] referring to it as the "bell jar".
Although internationally connected, each country's elite lives in a bell jar
in the sense of being out of touch with its own populace. Their isolation
fosters a tendency to be oblivious to the fate of their fellow citizens.[76]

Lawrence Summers refers to this concept as the "stateless elites", tied more
to the success of the global economy than to any nation, and views it as
eroding support for continuing globalization.[77]

## See also[edit]

  * 2009 Davos incident
  * Asian Leadership Conference
  * Boao Forum for Asia
  * Davos process
  * European Business Summit
  * International Labour Organization
  * International Transport Forum
  * Istanbul World Political Forum
  * St. Petersburg International Economic Forum
  * Sustainable development
  * World Knowledge Forum

## References[edit]

  1. **^** "Agreement signed with the WEF". [press release]. Federal Council, Swiss Confederation. 23 January 2015. Retrieved  21 May 2015. 
  2. **^** Rachman, Gideon (28 January 2011). "What's on the mind of Davos man?". _Financial Times_. Retrieved  15 December 2014. 
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Pigman. pp. 41–42.
  4. **^** Pigman. pp. 6–22.
  5. **^** Kellerman. p. 229.
  6. **^** Schwab and Kroos.
  7. **^** (registration required) "Interview: Klaus Schwab" Archived 4 June 2009 at the Wayback Machine.. _Financial Times_. 22 January 2008. Retrieved 29 August 2008.
  8. **^** Lowe, Felix (14 January 2008). "WEF and Davos: A Brief History" Archived 3 April 2008 at the Wayback Machine.. _The Telegraph_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  9. **^** Keaten Jamey, _AP_ (13 January 2016). "World Economic Forum revokes invitation to North Korea to attend the annual meeting in Davos" Archived 11 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine.. _U.S. News & World Report_. Retrieved 14 January 2016.
  10. **^** _AFP_ (15 January 2016). N. Korean fury over 'sinister' WEF Davos forum exclusion Archived 7 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine.. _The China Post_. Retrieved 15 January 2016.
  11. **^** P. S. Goodman (2017). "In Era of Trump, China’s President Champions Economic Globalization". _The New York Times_ (News Analysis). Retrieved 17 January 2017.
  12. **^** "New Forum Center to Advance Global Cooperation on Fourth Industrial Revolution". _World Economic Forum_. Retrieved  2016-11-20. 
  13. **^** Pigman. pp. 58–59.
  14. **^** "The Leadership Team | World Economic Forum-The Leadership Team". Weforum.org. Retrieved  22 January 2012. 
  15. **^** "World Economic Forum – Annual Meeting 2009". Weforum.org. 1 February 2009. Archived from the original on 17 September 2012. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  16. **^** "Members | World Economic Forum-Members". Weforum.org. Retrieved  22 January 2012. 
  17. **^** "THE TRUTH ABOUT DAVOS: Here's Why People Happily Pay $71,000+ To Come--And Why They'll Keep Paying More Every Year". Business Insider. January 26, 2011.  
  18. **^** "Sky-high Davos summit fees leave multinationals feeling deflated". The Financial Times. October 10, 2014.  
  19. **^** Staff writer (26 January 2009). "Q&A: World Economic Forum 2009" Archived 23 September 2016 at the Wayback Machine. _BBC News_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  20. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 4 January 2016. Retrieved  2015-02-23.  Madslien, Jorn BBC News – Davos Man eyes investment opportunities
  21. **^** Weber, Tim (26 January 2010). "A Beginners' Guide to Davos" Archived 23 September 2016 at the Wayback Machine. _BBC News_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  22. **^** "Forum's homepage". Weforum.org. Retrieved  7 March 2010. [ _permanent dead link_ ]
  23. **^** "Archived copy". Archived from the original on 4 January 2016. Retrieved  2015-06-08.  My first Davos – what I learned
  24. **^** "Kanaal van WorldEconomicForum". YouTube. 31 January 2010. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  25. **^** "World Economic Forum's Photostream". Flickr. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  26. **^** [ _dead link_ ] [1][ _permanent dead link_ ]
  27. **^** founder Klaus Schwab's declaration that "the need for global cooperation has never been greater".
  28. **^** "World Economic Forum 2011 Abridged List of Participants" (PDF). Retrieved 22 January 2012. 
  29. **^** "World Economic Forum: The Inaugural Annual Meeting of the New Champions". China.org. Retrieved  29 August 2008. 
  30. **^** Staff writer (1 August 2007). "Summer Davos To Put Dalian on Business Map". _China Daily_ (via _People's Daily_ ). Retrieved 25 January 2011. 
  31. **^** "World Economic Forum – Events". _Weforum.org_. World Economic Forum. Archived from the original on 9 January 2009. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  32. **^** "Forum of Young global Leaders". _Weforum.org_. World Economic Forum. Retrieved  5 April 2013. 
  33. **^** "Schwab Foundation for Social Entrepreneurship – Home". Schwabfound.org. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  34. **^** Fruchterman, Jim (31 January 2005). "Davos Diary: Meetings of Minds" Archived 23 September 2016 at the Wayback Machine. _BBC News_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  35. **^** Moore. p. 209.
  36. **^** Bornstein. p. 272.
  37. **^** "Community of Global Shapers – Home". weforum.org. Retrieved  23 August 2012. 
  38. **^** "Global Shapers – Home". globalshapers.org. Retrieved  7 October 2014. 
  39. **^** "GlobalShapers.org – Home". GlobalShapers.org. Retrieved  11 July 2016. 
  40. **^** Vera Penêda. "Making Every Drop Count". The Global Times. Archived from the original on 24 March 2012. Retrieved 26 April 2012. 
  41. **^** "Issues | World Economic Forum-Issues". _Weforum.org_. World Economic Forum. Archived from the original on 1 December 2010. Retrieved  29 November 2011. 
  42. **^** "WEF – Financial Development Report". World Economic Forum. Archived from the original on 18 August 2013.  
  43. **^** Pigman. pp. 43, 92–112.
  44. **^** "Global Risks | World Economic Forum-Global Risks". _Weforum.org_. World Economic Forum. Archived from the original on 1 December 2010. Retrieved  29 November 2011. 
  45. **^** Global Risk Report 2009 Archived 25 February 2009 at the Wayback Machine. World Economic Forum.
  46. **^** India Brand Equity Foundation. "India Adda World Economic Forum at Davos" Archived 21 February 2014 at the Wayback Machine. 2012.
  47. **^** Black, Richard (20 June 2008). "Business Chiefs Urge Carbon Curbs" Archived 23 September 2016 at the Wayback Machine. _BBC News_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  48. **^** Szabo, Michael (19 June 2008). "Business Chiefs Call for G8 Climate Leadership" Archived 31 January 2009 at the Wayback Machine. _Reuters_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  49. **^** Pigman. p. 115.
  50. **^** _Shaping the Future of Environment and Natural Resource Security_ The World Economic Forum Davos 2017. Retrieved 16 January 2017.
  51. **^** D. G. McNeil Jr (2017). Donors and Drug Makers Offer $500 Million to Control Global Epidemics. _The New York Times_. Retrieved 20 January 2017.
  52. **^** "World Economic Forum – Technology Pioneers". _Weforum.org_. World Economic Forum. Archived from the original on 1 October 2009. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  53. **^** "World Economic Forum: a history and analysis". Retrieved  20 January 2017. 
  54. **^** "Creating the Responsible Consumer: Moralistic Governance Regimes and Consumer Subjectivity Markus Giesler Ela Veresiu". Retrieved  21 January 2017. 
  55. **^** Barret, Bernard (15 November 2000). "Beating Up – A Report on Police Batons and the News Media at the World Economic Forum, Melbourne, September 2000" Archived 26 September 2011 at the Wayback Machine.. _[Australian Politics]_. Retrieved 24 August 2011.
  56. **^** Noon, Chris (21 January 2006). "Bono Teams Up With Amex, Gap For Product Red" Archived 8 September 2008 at the Wayback Machine.. _Forbes_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  57. **^** C. Thumshirn (2017). Warum das WEF keine Demonstranten mehr anlockt(in German). Neue Zürcher Zeitung. Retrieved 17 January, 2017.
  58. **^** Tibetans and Uighurs protest in Geneva. SWI swissinfo.ch (Politics-Conflict). Retrieved 22 January 2017.
  59. **^** Olanike F. Deji. "Gender and Rural Development: Advanced studies".
  60. **^** Webster, Camilla (22 January 2008). "The Davos Buzz" Archived 5 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine.. _Forbes_. Retrieved 25 January 2011.
  61. **^** [ _dead link_ ] "Police Arrest 100 Davos Protesters" Archived 23 March 2008 at the Wayback Machine.. CNN. 28 January 2001. Retrieved 29 August 2008.
  62. **^** [ _dead link_ ] "Tight Security Surrounds Davos"[ _permanent dead link_ ]. CNN. 25 January 2001. Retrieved 29 August 2008.
  63. **^** Michel Liechti, Giovanni Arcudi, Marisa Vonlanthen, "Frontières entre police et armée" Archived 18 October 2016 at the Wayback Machine., _Cahier du GIPRI_ , n° 2, 2004.
  64. **^** "Open Forum Davos, Schweizerischer Evangelischer Kirchenbund". Openforumdavos.ch. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  65. **^** Pigman. p. 130.
  66. **^** "Open Forum". YouTube. Retrieved  7 March 2010. 
  67. **^** Gowers, Andrew (22 January 2006). "Davos: Beanfeast of Pomp and Platitude". _The Sunday Times_. Retrieved  25 January 2011. 
  68. **^** Strauss, Steven (12 January 2014). "Why Do U.S. Politicians Meet With 'Criminal' Entities in Switzerland?". _The Huffington Post_. Retrieved  17 January 2014. 
  69. **^** Lang, Olivia (28 January 2011). "BBC Davos Day three". BBC News. Retrieved 29 November 2011. 
  70. **^** Gianluca Galgani: WEF ohne Kritiker Archived 4 August 2016 at the Wayback Machine.. Schweizer Radio und Fernsehen, 16 January 2016. Retrieved 20 January 2015.
  71. **^** Timothy Garton Ash. Davos man's death wish Archived 21 August 2008 at the Wayback Machine., _The Guardian_ , 3 February 2005
  72. **^** Samuel Huntington. "Dead Souls: The Denationalization of the American Elite" Archived 14 September 2016 at the Wayback Machine., _The National Interest_ , Spring 2004
  73. **^** [2] Archived 2 December 2008 at the Wayback Machine.
  74. **^** A. Gibbs (2017). As world leaders descend upon Davos, the gender debate rumbles on CNBC News. Retrieved 17 January 2017.
  75. **^** "Archived copy" (PDF). Archived (PDF) from the original on 9 October 2016. Retrieved 2014-10-26. 
  76. **^** Hernando de Soto Polar. _The Mystery of Capital: Why Capitalism Triumphs in the West and Fails Everywhere Else_. Basic Books. 2003. ISBN 0-465-01614-6
  77. **^** Summers, Lawrence (27 April 2008). "America needs to make a new case for trade". FT.com. Retrieved 20 June 2013. 

## Reference books[edit]

  * Bornstein, David (2007). _How to Change the World – Social Entrepreneurs and the Power of New Ideas_. Oxford University Press (New York City). ISBN 978-0-19-533476-0. 358 pages.
  * Kellerman, Barbara (1999). _Reinventing Leadership – Making the Connection Between Politics and Business_. State University of New York Press (Albany, New York). ISBN 978-0-7914-4071-1. 268 pages.
  * Moore, Mike (2003). _A World Without Walls – Freedom, Development, Free Trade and Global Governance_. Cambridge University Press (Cambridge, England; New York City). ISBN 978-0-521-82701-0. 292 pages.
  * Pigman, Geoffrey Allen (2007). _The World Economic Forum – A Multi-Stakeholder Approach to Global Governance_. Routledge (London, England; New York City). ISBN 978-0-415-70204-1. 175 pages.
  * Rothkopf, David J. (2008). _Superclass – The Global Power Elite and the World They Are Making_. Farrar, Straus and Giroux (New York City). ISBN 978-0-374-27210-4. 376 pages.
  * Schwab, Klaus M.; Kroos, Hein (1971). _Moderne Unternehmensführung im Maschinenbau_. Verein Dt. Maschinenbau-Anst. e.V.. Maschinenbau-Verl (Frankfurt om Main, Germany). OCLC 256314575.
  * Wolf, Michael (1999). _The Entertainment Economy – How Mega-Media Forces Are Transforming Our Lives_. Random House (New York City). ISBN 978-0-8129-3042-9. 336 pages.

##  External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**World Economic Forum**_.  
---|---  
  
**Listen to this article** (info/dl)

  

This audio file was created from a revision of the article "World Economic
Forum" dated 2016-29-01, and does not reflect subsequent edits to the article.
(Audio help)

**More spoken articles**

  * Official website
  * "The Forum's youtube channel"
  * "Behind the Scenes at Davos" broadcast 14 February 2010 on _60 Minutes_
  * ´How to Open the World Economic Forum´ – Matthias Lüfkens in Interview with 99FACES.tv
  * "Everybody’s Business: Strengthening International Cooperation in a More Interdependent World" launched May 2010, Doha, Qatar

Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 128426704
  * LCCN: n85140903
  * ISNI: 0000 0004 0508 3220
  * GND: 46147-7
  * SUDOC: 052489361
  * BNF: cb135577692 (data)

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=World_Economic_Forum&oldid=816909385"

Categories:

  * 20th-century economic history
  * 1971 establishments in Switzerland
  * 21st-century economic history
  * Davos
  * Economics organizations
  * Foundations based in Switzerland
  * Graubünden
  * Organisations based in Geneva
  * Organizations established in 1971
  * Global economic conferences
  * Organizations with general consultative status to the United Nations Economic and Social Council

Hidden categories:

  * Pages with login required references or sources
  * Webarchive template wayback links
  * All articles with dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from September 2017
  * Articles with permanently dead external links
  * Articles with dead external links from November 2010
  * Articles with dead external links from November 2016
  * Articles with dead external links from January 2011
  * Use dmy dates from March 2016
  * Use British English Oxford spelling from November 2017
  * All Wikipedia articles needing clarification
  * Wikipedia articles needing clarification from June 2016
  * All articles with unsourced statements
  * Articles with unsourced statements from January 2012
  * All articles with failed verification
  * Articles with failed verification from January 2012
  * Articles with unsourced statements from September 2015
  * Spoken articles
  * Articles with hAudio microformats
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

  * Alemannisch
  * العربية
  * تۆرکجه
  * Bamanankan
  * বাংলা
  * Беларуская
  * Беларуская (тарашкевіца)‎
  * Български
  * Català
  * Čeština
  * Dansk
  * Deutsch
  * Eesti
  * Español
  * Esperanto
  * Euskara
  * فارسی
  * Français
  * ગુજરાતી
  * 한국어
  * Հայերեն
  * हिन्दी
  * Hrvatski
  * Bahasa Indonesia
  * Íslenska
  * Italiano
  * עברית
  * ಕನ್ನಡ
  * Қазақша
  * Latina
  * Lietuvių
  * Magyar
  * Македонски
  * Bahasa Melayu
  * Монгол
  * Nederlands
  * 日本語
  * Norsk
  * Polski
  * Português
  * Română
  * Русский
  * Shqip
  * Sicilianu
  * Simple English
  * Srpskohrvatski / српскохрватски
  * Suomi
  * Svenska
  * தமிழ்
  * ไทย
  * Türkçe
  * Українська
  * Tiếng Việt
  * Winaray
  * 中文

Edit links

  * This page was last edited on 24 December 2017, at 16:09.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[div.]: divorced
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[Statistics]: Biostatistics programs are not considered in the No. 8 ranking. UPenn is No. 10 when Biostatistics programs are considered.
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

