

# Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies

From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Jump to: navigation, search

Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies  
---  
Established | 1900 (1900)  
Parent institution | Yale University  
Location | New Haven, Connecticut, United States  
41°19′01″N 72°55′25″W﻿ / ﻿41.31694°N 72.92361°W﻿ / 41.31694;
-72.92361Coordinates: 41°19′01″N 72°55′25″W﻿ / ﻿41.31694°N 72.92361°W﻿ /
41.31694; -72.92361  
Dean | Indy Burke  
Academic staff | 47  
Postgraduates | 280  
Doctoral students | 75  
Website | environment.yale.edu  
  
The **Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies** (F&ES) is a
professional school of Yale University. It was founded to train foresters, and
now trains environmental leaders through four 2-year degree programs (Master
of Environmental Management, Master of Environmental Science, Master of
Forestry, and Master of Forest Science) and two 10-month mid-career programs.
F&ES strives to creates new knowledge that will sustain and restore the health
of the biosphere and emphasizes the possibility of creating a regenerative
coexistence between humans and non-human life and the rest of the natural
world. Still offering forestry instruction, the school has the oldest graduate
forestry program in the United States.

## Contents

  * 1 History
  * 2 School buildings
  * 3 Centers and programs
  * 4 School forest
  * 5 Student life
  * 6 Notable graduates
  * 7 References
  * 8 External links

## History[edit]

Yale School of Forestry class of 1904

The school was founded in 1900 as the **Yale Forest School** , to provide
high-level forestry training suited to American conditions. At the urging of
Yale alumnus Gifford Pinchot, his parents endowed the two-year postgraduate
program. At the time Pinchot was serving as Bernhard Fernow's successor as
Chief of the Division of Forestry (predecessor of the U.S. Forest Service,
USFS). Pinchot released two foresters from the division to start the school:
fellow Yale graduate Henry Solon Graves and James Toumey.[1] Graves became the
School's first dean and Toumey its second.

When the school opened, other places in the United States offered forestry
training, but none had a post-graduate program. (Both Pinchot and Graves had
gone to Europe to study forestry after graduating from Yale.)[2]) In the fall
of 1900, the New York State College of Forestry at Cornell had 24 students,
Biltmore Forest School 9, and Yale 7.[1] Despite its small size, from its
beginnings the school influenced American forestry. The first two chiefs of
the USFS were Pinchot and Graves; the next three were graduates from the
school's first decade. Wilderness and land conservation advocate Aldo Leopold
graduated in the class of 1908.

In 1915, Yale School of Forestry's second dean, James Toumey, became one of
the "charter members", along with William L. Bray of the New York State
College of Forestry, by then reestablished at Syracuse University, and Raphael
Zon, of the Ecological Society of America.[3] In 1950, the "activist wing" of
that society formed The Nature Conservancy.[3]

Besides the school's own forests, Yale has used a number of other sites in the
eastern United States for field education over the years. From 1904 to 1926,
the summer session leading to a master's degree in forestry was held at Grey
Towers and Forester's Hall in Milford, Pennsylvania.[4] Beginning in 1912,
Yale classes took occasional field trips to the land of the Crossett Lumber
Company in Arkansas. For two decades from 1946 until 1966, the company
provided the school a "camp," including cabins and a mess hall, used during
spring coursework on forest management and wood products production.[5] Yale
students have also used a field camp at the Great Mountain Forest in
northwestern Connecticut since 1941.[6]

Reflective of the expanding variety of environmental interests, the school
changed its name to the **Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies** in
1972. Today, F&ES is a leader in global sustainability, hosting the bi-annual
Yale Environmental Sustainability Summit to assemble thought leaders from
around the globe. The school's 16th and present dean is Ingrid "Indy" Burke,
who replaced Sir Peter Crane in October, 2016.[7]

## School buildings[edit]

Kroon Hall, as seen from Prospect Street

Sage Hall, completed in 1924

The School of Forestry's main buildings, bottom center, on Science Hill

The school offers classes at Kroon Hall, Sage Hall, Greeley Labs, Marsh Hall,
the Environmental Science Center, the houses at 301 Prospect St. and 380
Edwards St., and teaches the Yale College undergraduate courses needed for the
Environmental Studies major. Kroon Hall, the school's main building, is named
for the philanthropist Richard Kroon (Yale Class of 1964). The building has
50,000 square feet (5,000 m2) of space. It is "a showcase of the latest
developments in green building technology, a healthy and supportive
environment for work and study, and a beautiful building that actively
connects students, faculty, staff, and visitors with the natural world."[8]
The building obtained Platinum Rating under the LEED certification system.[8]
It is designed by Hopkins Architects of London with Architect of Record
Centerbrook Architects. Goodfellow Inc from Delson,Quebec has supplied all the
glulam roof structure for this project.

## Centers and programs[edit]

  * Yale Institute for Biospheric Studies
  * Center for Business and the Environment at Yale
  * Center for Environmental Law and Policy
  * Center for Green Chemistry & Green Engineering at Yale
  * Center for Industrial Ecology
  * Global Institute of Sustainable Forestry
  * Hixon Center for Urban Ecology
  * Tropical Resources Institute
  * The Yale Program on Climate Communication
  * Urban Resources Initiative
  * The Forest Dialogue
  * Governance, Environment and Markets Initiative
  * High Plains Stewardship Initiative (UCROSS)
  * Environmental Leadership and Training Initiative
  * Yale Climate Connections

## School forest[edit]

The school owns and manages 10,880 acres (44 km2) of forestland in
Connecticut, New Hampshire, and Vermont. The Yale-Myers Forest, in Union,
Connecticut, donated to Yale in 1930 by alumnus George Hewitt Myers, is
managed by the school as a multiple-use working forest. Yale-Toumey Forest,
near Keene, New Hampshire, was set up by James W. Toumey (a former dean of the
school) in 1913. Other Yale forestlands include Goss Woods, Crowell Forest,
Cross Woods, Bowen Forest, and Crowell Ravine.[9] A three-alarm fire burned
several buildings within the Yale Myers Forest Camp on May 28th, 2016.[10]
Rebuilding efforts are ongoing.

## Student life[edit]

The school has an active tradition of student involvement in academic and
extracurricular life. Many students take part in student interest groups,
which organize events around environmental issues of interest to them. These
groups range in interest from Conservation Finance and International
Development, to the Built Environment and "Fresh & Salty: The Society for
Marine and Coastal systems". There are also social and recreational groups,
such as the Forestry Club, which every Friday organizes themed "TGIF" ("Thank-
God-I'm-a-Forester") happy hours and school parties; the Polar Bear club,
which swims monthly in Long Island Sound under the full moon (year-round);
Veggie Dinner, which is a weekly vegetarian dinner club; the Loggerrhythms, an
a cappella singing group; and the student-run BYO Café in Kroon Hall opened in
2010.[11] A notable F&ES tradition is the extravagant environmentally inspired
decoration of graduation caps in preparation for commencement.[12]

## Notable graduates[edit]

  * Alphonse "Buddy" Fletcher, Jr., class of 2004[13]
  * Frances Beinecke, President, Natural Resources Defense Council; member, National Commission on the BP Deepwater Horizon Oil Spill and Offshore Drilling (2010)
  * Richard M. Brett, conservationist
  * Ian Cheney, Emmy-nominated filmmaker
  * William Wallace Covington, Regents' Professor, Northern Arizona University
  * William B. Greeley, Chief, U.S. Forest Service, 1920–1928
  * Stuart L. Hart, academic addressing global poverty and economic development, professor emeritus at Cornell University
  * Phillip Hoose, author
  * Ralph Hosmer, pioneering Hawaiian forester
  * Edward M. Kennedy, Jr., 1991, attorney and Connecticut state senator
  * Aldo Leopold, 1908, conservationist and author of _A Sand County Almanac_
  * H. R. MacMillan, forester and industrialist
  * John R. McGuire, Chief, U.S. Forest Service, 1972–1979
  * Thornton T. Munger, pioneering U.S. Forest Service researcher; civic activist who helped create Portland, Oregon's Forest Park
  * Mark Plotkin, ethnobotanist, explorer, and activist
  * Robert Michael Pyle, lepidopterist and John-Burroughs-Medal–winning author
  * Samuel J. Record, botanist
  * Ferdinand A. Silcox, Chief, U.S. Forest Service, 1933–1939
  * David Martyn Smith, forester and educator, author of _The Practice of Silviculture_
  * Robert Y. Stuart, Chief, U.S. Forest Service, 1928–1933

## References[edit]

  1. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ Sparhawk, W.N. (1949). "The History of Forestry in America". _Trees: Yearbook of Agriculture_. Washington, D.C.: United States Department of Agriculture. p. 710. Retrieved  28 March 2014. 
  2. **^** Pinchot, Gifford (1998). _Breaking New Ground_. Island Press. p. 152.  
  3. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ http://esa.org/history/
  4. **^** "National Historic Landmarks & National Register of Historic Places in Pennsylvania" (Searchable database). CRGIS: Cultural Resources Geographic Information System.  _Note:_ This includes  Steiner, Ben; Husson, Leon; Helfrich, Carson O. (December 1982). "National Register of Historic Places Inventory Nomination Form: Forester's Hall" (PDF). Retrieved 2012-05-30. 
  5. **^** Darling, Jr., O. H.; Norman, Bill. "Yale Camp". _The Encyclopedia of Arkansas History & Culture_. Retrieved 28 March 2014. 
  6. **^** "History: About Us". Great Mountain Forest. Retrieved  28 March 2014. 
  7. **^** "Biogeochemist Indy Burke named dean of Yale's School of Forestry & Environmental Studies", _YaleNews_ , Yale University, retrieved March 8, 2017 
  8. ^ _**a**_ _**b**_ "Kroon Hall". Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies. Retrieved  28 March 2014. 
  9. **^** "Yale School Forests". Yale School of Forestry & Environmental Studies. Retrieved  28 March 2014. 
  10. **^** http://yaledailynews.com/blog/2016/05/29/fire-claims-four-fes-buildings/
  11. **^** Henderson, Drew (18 February 2010). "Kroon opens student café". _Yale Daily News_. Retrieved  29 January 2011. 
  12. **^** https://environment.yale.edu/blog/2012/05/graduation-snapshots/
  13. **^** Faxon, Hilary (13 September 2007). "Alum's gift funds FES aid offerings". _Yale Daily News_. Retrieved  28 March 2014. 

## External links[edit]

| Wikimedia Commons has media related to _**Yale School of Forestry&
Environmental Studies**_.  
---|---  
  
  * Official website

  * v
  * t
  * e

Yale University  
  
---  
People |

  * **Namesake:** Elihu Yale
  * **President:** Peter Salovey (predecessors)
  * **Provost:** Ben Polak
  * Faculty
  * Sterling Professors
  * People list

|  
  
Schools |

  * **Undergraduate:** Yale College
  * **Graduate:** Graduate School of Arts & Sciences
  * **Professional:** Architecture
  * Art
  * Divinity
  * Drama
  * Engineering & Applied Science
  * Forestry & Environmental Studies
  * Law
  * Management
  * Medicine
  * Music
  * Nursing
  * Public Health
  * Institute of Sacred Music
  * **Defunct:** Sheffield Scientific School

  
  
Campus |

  * Connecticut Hall
  * Old Campus
  * Memorial Quadrangle
  * Harkness Tower
  * Hewitt Quadrangle
  * Hillhouse Avenue
  * Science Hill
  * Yale-Myers Forest
  * Horchow Hall
  * Steinbach Hall
  * Edward P. Evans Hall

  
  
Residential colleges |

  * Berkeley
  * Branford
  * Davenport
  * Ezra Stiles
  * Jonathan Edwards
  * Franklin
  * Hopper (formerly Calhoun)
  * Morse
  * Pauli Murray
  * Pierson
  * Saybrook
  * Silliman
  * Timothy Dwight
  * Trumbull

  
  
Library and museums |

  * Yale University Library
  * Sterling Memorial Library
  * Beinecke Rare Book & Manuscript Library
  * Harvey Cushing/John Hay Whitney Medical Library
  * Lillian Goldman Law Library
  * Bass Library
  * Lewis Walpole Library
  * Peabody Museum of Natural History
  * Yale University Art Gallery
  * Yale Center for British Art
  * Collection of Musical Instruments

  
  
Research centers |

  * Child Study Center
  * Cowles Foundation
  * Haskins Laboratories
  * Human Relations Area Files
  * MacMillan Center
  * Rudd Center
  * Yale Cancer Center

  
  
Athletics |

  * **Team:** Yale Bulldogs
  * **Mascot:** Handsome Dan
  * **Arenas:** Yale Bowl (football)
  * Ingalls Rink (hockey)
  * Yale Golf Course
  * Yale Field (baseball)
  * Reese Stadium (soccer and lacrosse)
  * Payne Whitney Gymnasium
  * **Rivalries:** Harvard–Yale Regatta
  * Harvard–Yale football rivalry

  
  
International |

  * Gruber Foundation
  * Jackson Institute for Global Affairs
  * Yale World Fellows
  * Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art
  * Yale-NUS College

  
  
Related |

  * In popular culture

  
  
Category  •   Commons  •   Wikinews  
  
Authority control |

  * WorldCat Identities
  * VIAF: 149981412
  * LCCN: n80087504
  * ISNI: 0000 0001 2183 4854
  * GND: 1086608364
  * SUDOC: 069280630
  * BNF: cb12420785p (data)
  * BIBSYS: 99014769
  * NLA: 49860022

  
  
---|---  
  
Retrieved from
"https://en.wikipedia.org/w/index.php?title=Yale_School_of_Forestry_%26_Environmental_Studies&oldid=803167126"

Categories:

  * Yale University schools
  * Forestry education
  * Forestry in the United States
  * History of forestry education
  * Educational institutions established in 1900
  * Environmental education in the United States
  * Environmental studies institutions in the United States
  * 1900 establishments in Connecticut

Hidden categories:

  * Coordinates on Wikidata
  * Pages using infobox academic division with the parent parameter
  * Wikipedia articles with VIAF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with LCCN identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with ISNI identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with GND identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BNF identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with BIBSYS identifiers
  * Wikipedia articles with NLA identifiers

## Navigation menu

### Personal tools

  * Not logged in
  * Talk
  * Contributions
  * Create account
  * Log in

### Namespaces

  * Article
  * Talk

###  Variants

### Views

  * Read
  * Edit
  * View history

### More

###  Search

### Navigation

  * Main page
  * Contents
  * Featured content
  * Current events
  * Random article
  * Donate to Wikipedia
  * Wikipedia store

### Interaction

  * Help
  * About Wikipedia
  * Community portal
  * Recent changes
  * Contact page

### Tools

  * What links here
  * Related changes
  * Upload file
  * Special pages
  * Permanent link
  * Page information
  * Wikidata item
  * Cite this page

### Print/export

  * Create a book
  * Download as PDF
  * Printable version

### In other projects

  * Wikimedia Commons

### Languages

Add links

  * This page was last edited on 30 September 2017, at 21:55.
  * Text is available under the Creative Commons Attribution-ShareAlike License; additional terms may apply. By using this site, you agree to the Terms of Use and Privacy Policy. Wikipedia® is a registered trademark of the Wikimedia Foundation, Inc., a non-profit organization.

  * Privacy policy
  * About Wikipedia
  * Disclaimers
  * Contact Wikipedia
  * Developers
  * Cookie statement
  * Mobile view

  *   * 

  *[FBS]: Football Bowl Subdivision
  *[FCS]: Football Championship Subdivision
  *[e]: Edit this template
  *[c.]: circa
  *[m.]: married
  *[Pop.]: Population
  *[ v]: View this template
  *[t]: Discuss this template
  *[v]: View this template
  *[1887]: April 22, 1887
  *[±%]: Percent change
  *[%±]: Percent change

